docs/semgrep-assistant/getting-started.md, before:

---
slug: getting-started
title: Analyze with Assistant
hide_title: true
description: Learn how to enable and use all of Assistant's features.
tags:
  - Deployment
  - Semgrep Assistant
---

# Enable and use Semgrep Assistant

import Tabs from '@theme/Tabs';
import TabItem from '@theme/TabItem';

This article walks you through enabling Semgrep Assistant for your deployment and using its features.

:::info Prerequisites
* You have completed a [Semgrep core deployment](/deployment/core-deployment).
* You have set rules to **Comment** or **Block** mode in your [<i class="fas fa-external-link fa-sm"></i> Policies page](https://semgrep.dev/orgs/-/policies).
:::

<Tabs
    defaultValue="github"
    values={[
    {label: 'GitHub', value: 'github'},
    {label: 'GitLab', value: 'gitlab'},
    ]}
>

<TabItem value='github'>

Semgrep Assistant extends normal Semgrep capabilities by providing contextually aware AI-generated suggestions. In order to build that context, it requires GitHub permissions in addition to the
[<i class="fa-regular fa-file-lines"></i> standard permissions required for Semgrep](/deployment/checklist/#permissions).

Semgrep Assistant requires [read access to your code in GitHub](https://docs.github.com/en/rest/overview/permissions-required-for-github-apps?apiVersion=2022-11-28). This is done through a private Semgrep GitHub app that you install during Assistant setup. This private Semgrep GitHub app:

* Is fully under your control so you can revoke access or specific permissions at any time by visiting **Settings > Applications** in GitHub.
* Only accesses source code repositories on a file-by-file basis; it does not need or request org-level access to your codebase.
* Can be configured to limit its scope to specific repositories. You do not need to give read access to all repositories in your GitHub organization.

## Enable Assistant

1. Sign in to [Semgrep AppSec Platform](https://semgrep.dev/login).
2. Click **[<i class="fa-solid fa-gear"></i> Settings](https://semgrep.dev/orgs/-/settings/)**.
3. In the **Assistant** section, click the **<i class="fa-solid fa-gear"></i> Allow code snippets in AI prompts** toggle.
![Semgrep Assistant setup button](/img/semgrep-assistant-setup.png#md-width)
   This launches the **Set up Semgrep Assistant** prompt.
1. Select a source code manager (SCM) by clicking **github.com**.
2. Semgrep provides you with information on why Assistant requires access to your source code. Click **Accept & Enable Assistant** to proceed.
3. You are redirected to the page where you can add a GitHub Private App that grants Semgrep read access to your code.
   1. Enter your GitHub information. Select whether you're installing the app on an **organization** or **Personal Account**, and provide its name.
   2. Click **Review permissions** to see the permissions requested by Semgrep.
   3. Click **Register GitHub App** to proceed.
   4. When prompted, click **Continue** to allow redirection to GitHub to finalize app creation. Follow the instructions to finish creating and installing a private `semgrep-app`.
4. You are redirected to Semgrep AppSec Platform's **Source Code Managers** page. Navigate back to the **Deployment** page. Under the **Assistant** section, verify that all of the features are enabled:
   1. **Allow code snippets in AI prompts**: Required for Semgrep to auto-triage findings, provide AI remediation guidance, and tag findings with code context.
   2. **Autofix suggestions for Code**: Enable autofix suggestions in comments from Assistant. You can also set the minimum confidence level for Assistant-written fixes if the Semgrep rule doesn't include a human-written autofix.
   3. **Auto-triage for Code**: Enable notifications whenever Assistant suggests that a finding may be safe to ignore. You can include notifications in your PR and MR comments, or you can receive them through Slack notifications.
    ![Semgrep Assistant toggle location](/img/semgrep-assistant-enable.png)

</TabItem>

<TabItem value='gitlab'>

Semgrep Assistant extends normal Semgrep capabilities by providing contextually aware AI-generated suggestions. In order to build that context, it requires GitLab permissions in addition to the
[<i class="fa-regular fa-file-lines"></i> standard permissions required for Semgrep](/deployment/checklist/#permissions).

Semgrep Assistant requires the **API scope** to run in both GitLab SaaS and GitLab self-managed instances. This can be specified at either the [project access token level](https://docs.gitlab.com/ee/user/project/settings/project_access_tokens.html) or [personal access token level](https://docs.gitlab.com/ee/user/profile/personal_access_tokens.html).

* You can revoke [project access tokens](https://docs.gitlab.com/ee/user/project/settings/project_access_tokens.html#revoke-a-project-access-token) or [personal access tokens](https://docs.gitlab.com/ee/user/profile/personal_access_tokens.html#revoke-a-personal-access-token) at any time.
* Semgrep Assistant only accesses source code repositories (projects) on a file-by-file basis; it does not need or request org-level access to your codebase.
* The token can be configured to limit its scope to specific projects or individuals. You do not need to give read access to all projects in your GitLab organization.

<h2>Enable Assistant</h2>

1. Sign in to [Semgrep AppSec Platform <i class="fas fa-external-link fa-xs"></i>](https://semgrep.dev/login) using your GitLab account.
2. Click **[<i class="fa-solid fa-gear"></i> Settings](https://semgrep.dev/orgs/-/settings/)**.
3. In the **Assistant** section, click the **<i class="fa-solid fa-gear"></i> Allow code snippets in AI prompts** toggle.
![Semgrep Assistant setup button](/img/semgrep-assistant-setup.png#md-width)
   This launches the **Set up Semgrep Assistant** prompt.
1. Follow the on-screen instructions to complete the setup process.
2. Navigate back to the **Deployment** page. Under the **Assistant** section, verify that all of the features are enabled:
   1. **Allow code snippets in AI prompts**: Required for Semgrep to auto-triage findings, provide AI remediation guidance, and tag findings with code context.
   2. **Autofix suggestions for Code**: Enable autofix suggestions in comments from Assistant. You can also set the minimum confidence level for Assistant-written fixes if the Semgrep rule doesn't include a human-written autofix.
   3. **Auto-triage for Code**: Enable notifications whenever Assistant suggests that a finding may be safe to ignore. You can include notifications in your PR and MR comments, or you can receive them through Slack notifications.
   4. **Weekly priority emails**: Get weekly emails with information on your top backlog tasks according to Assistant. Semgrep sends these emails to organization admins every Monday.
    ![Semgrep Assistant toggle location](/img/semgrep-assistant-enable.png)

</TabItem>
</Tabs>

### Enable autofix suggestions

Autofix allows you to receive code snippets to remediate true positives. Perform the following to enable it:

1. Sign in to Semgrep AppSec Platform, and navigate to **Settings > Deployment**.
2. In the **Assistant** section, click the **Autofix suggestions for Code** <i class="fa-solid fa-toggle-large-on"></i> if it is not yet enabled.
3. *Optional*: Select a **confidence level** in the drop-down box. This value determines the level of quality at which the autofix code appears as a suggestion. A lower confidence level means that Semgrep Assistant displays the autofix suggestion even when the code quality may be incorrect.
    :::tip
    Semgrep recommends setting a low confidence level since even incorrect suggestions may be useful starting points for triage and remediation.
    :::

### Enable auto-triage

If [auto-triage](/semgrep-assistant/overview/#auto-triage), which allows you to get notifications whenever Assistant indicates a finding may be safe to ignore, isn't enabled for your deployment, you can do so as follows:

1. Sign in to Semgrep AppSec Platform, and navigate to **Settings > Deployment**.
2. In the **Assistant** section, click the **Auto-triage for Code** <i class="fa-solid fa-toggle-large-on"></i> if it is not yet enabled.
3. Select whether you want alerts included in your **PR/MR comments** and **Slack notifications**.

![MR comment from Semgrep Assistant in GitLab](/img/assistant-gl-comment.png#md-width)
*Figure*. MR comment from Semgrep Assistant in GitLab.

#### Missing PR and comments
Semgrep Assistant messages only appear in your PR comments for rules that are set to Comment or Block mode on the Rule Management page. Ensure that:

* You have set rules to Comment or Block mode.
  ![ Policies modes](/img/semgrep-assistant-comment.png)
* You have selected PR/MR comments in **Semgrep AppSec Platform > Settings > Deployment** in the **Code** section.

### Enable priority inbox

If [priority inbox](/semgrep-assistant/overview/#priority-inbox), which allows organization admins to receive information on top backlog tasks according to Assistant, isn't enabled for your deployment, you can do so as follows:

1. Sign in to Semgrep AppSec Platform, and navigate to **Settings > Deployment**.
2. In the **Assistant** section, click the **Weekly priority emails** <i class="fa-solid fa-toggle-large-on"></i> if it is not yet enabled.

## Analyze findings

Once you've enabled Assistant, you can use the **Analyze** button on the [Findings page](/semgrep-code/findings) to trigger all Assistant functions, including autofix, auto-triage, and component tagging, on existing findings.

![Assistant Analyze button on Findings page](/img/scp-assistant.png#md-width)

To analyze your findings with Assistant:

1. On the [Findings](https://semgrep.dev/orgs/-/findings?tab=open) page, select the findings that you want Assistant to analyze.
2. Click **Analyze**.
3. In the confirmation window that appears, confirm that you want to analyze your findings with Assistant.

After Assistant performs these functions, you can see your results on the **Findings** page using the **Recommendation** or **Component** filters. When viewing your findings, you can see false positive and true positive recommendations when viewing the finding details pages if you choose **No Grouping** instead of **Group by Rule**.

The amount of time required to analyze your findings varies, but the UI displays a notification that provides an estimated wait time.

:::info
There is a cap of 250 Assistant runs per month using the **Analyze** button. Assistant runs against pull requests and merge requests do not count against this limit.
:::

## View recommendations

You can [view all of Semgrep Assistant's recommendations](/semgrep-code/findings/#filter-findings) by going to the Semgrep **Findings** page and filtering by **Recommendation** or **Component**.

## Write custom rules (beta)

Semgrep Assistant can help you write custom rules to find issues specific to your codebase.

To do so:

1. Sign in to Semgrep AppSec Platform.
2. Navigate to **Rules > Editor**.
3. Click the **plus** button, and under **Generate with AI**, click **...with Semgrep Assistant**.
   ![The plus button to open up the custom rules editor](/img/assistant-launch-rules-editor.png#md-width)
4. In the **Generate rule with Semgrep Assistant** pop-up window:
   1. Select the language of your codebase.
   2. Provide a prompt describing what you want the rule to do in English.
   3. Optional: provide an example of bad code.
   4. Optional: provide an example of good code.
   ![Custom rule sample plus test window](/img/assistant-write-custom-rule.png#md-width)
5. Click **Generate** to proceed. You'll be redirected to a screen where you can view and copy your rule and test it against the sample bad code snippet you provided.
   ![Dialog box for custom rule parameters](/img/assistant-view-rule.png#md-width)

Commit message:

add docs for Assistant Memories (#1658)

docs/semgrep-assistant/getting-started.md, after:

---
slug: getting-started
title: Analyze with Assistant
hide_title: true
description: Learn how to enable and use all of Assistant's features.
tags:
  - Deployment
  - Semgrep Assistant
---

# Enable and use Semgrep Assistant

import Tabs from '@theme/Tabs';
import TabItem from '@theme/TabItem';

This article walks you through enabling Semgrep Assistant for your deployment and using its features.

:::info Prerequisites
* You have completed a [Semgrep core deployment](/deployment/core-deployment).
* You have set rules to **Comment** or **Block** mode in your [<i class="fas fa-external-link fa-sm"></i> Policies page](https://semgrep.dev/orgs/-/policies).
:::

<Tabs
    defaultValue="github"
    values={[
    {label: 'GitHub', value: 'github'},
    {label: 'GitLab', value: 'gitlab'},
    ]}
>

<TabItem value='github'>

Semgrep Assistant extends normal Semgrep capabilities by providing contextually aware AI-generated suggestions. In order to build that context, it requires GitHub permissions in addition to the
[<i class="fa-regular fa-file-lines"></i> standard permissions required for Semgrep](/deployment/checklist/#permissions).

Semgrep Assistant requires [read access to your code in GitHub](https://docs.github.com/en/rest/overview/permissions-required-for-github-apps?apiVersion=2022-11-28). This is done through a private Semgrep GitHub app that you install during Assistant setup. This private Semgrep GitHub app:

* Is fully under your control so you can revoke access or specific permissions at any time by visiting **Settings > Applications** in GitHub.
* Only accesses source code repositories on a file-by-file basis; it does not need or request org-level access to your codebase.
* Can be configured to limit its scope to specific repositories. You do not need to give read access to all repositories in your GitHub organization.

## Enable Assistant

1. Sign in to [Semgrep AppSec Platform](https://semgrep.dev/login).
2. Click **[<i class="fa-solid fa-gear"></i> Settings](https://semgrep.dev/orgs/-/settings/)**.
3. In the **Assistant** section, click the **<i class="fa-solid fa-gear"></i> Allow code snippets in AI prompts** toggle.
![Semgrep Assistant setup button](/img/semgrep-assistant-setup.png#md-width)
   This launches the **Set up Semgrep Assistant** prompt.
1. Select a source code manager (SCM) by clicking **github.com**.
2. Semgrep provides you with information on why Assistant requires access to your source code. Click **Accept & Enable Assistant** to proceed.
3. You are redirected to the page where you can add a GitHub Private App that grants Semgrep read access to your code.
   1. Enter your GitHub information. Select whether you're installing the app on an **organization** or **Personal Account**, and provide its name.
   2. Click **Review permissions** to see the permissions requested by Semgrep.
   3. Click **Register GitHub App** to proceed.
   4. When prompted, click **Continue** to allow redirection to GitHub to finalize app creation. Follow the instructions to finish creating and installing a private `semgrep-app`.
4. You are redirected to Semgrep AppSec Platform's **Source Code Managers** page. Navigate back to the **Deployment** page. Under the **Assistant** section, verify that all of the features are enabled:
   1. **Allow code snippets in AI prompts**: Required for Semgrep to auto-triage findings, provide AI remediation guidance, and tag findings with code context.
   2. **Autofix suggestions for Code**: Enable autofix suggestions in comments from Assistant. You can also set the minimum confidence level for Assistant-written fixes if the Semgrep rule doesn't include a human-written autofix.
   3. **Auto-triage for Code**: Enable notifications whenever Assistant suggests that a finding may be safe to ignore. You can include notifications in your PR and MR comments, or you can receive them through Slack notifications.
    ![Semgrep Assistant toggle location](/img/semgrep-assistant-enable.png)

</TabItem>

<TabItem value='gitlab'>

Semgrep Assistant extends normal Semgrep capabilities by providing contextually aware AI-generated suggestions. In order to build that context, it requires GitLab permissions in addition to the
[<i class="fa-regular fa-file-lines"></i> standard permissions required for Semgrep](/deployment/checklist/#permissions).

Semgrep Assistant requires the **API scope** to run in both GitLab SaaS and GitLab self-managed instances. This can be specified at either the [project access token level](https://docs.gitlab.com/ee/user/project/settings/project_access_tokens.html) or [personal access token level](https://docs.gitlab.com/ee/user/profile/personal_access_tokens.html).

* You can revoke [project access tokens](https://docs.gitlab.com/ee/user/project/settings/project_access_tokens.html#revoke-a-project-access-token) or [personal access tokens](https://docs.gitlab.com/ee/user/profile/personal_access_tokens.html#revoke-a-personal-access-token) at any time.
* Semgrep Assistant only accesses source code repositories (projects) on a file-by-file basis; it does not need or request org-level access to your codebase.
* The token can be configured to limit its scope to specific projects or individuals. You do not need to give read access to all projects in your GitLab organization.

<h2>Enable Assistant</h2>

1. Sign in to [Semgrep AppSec Platform <i class="fas fa-external-link fa-xs"></i>](https://semgrep.dev/login) using your GitLab account.
2. Click **[<i class="fa-solid fa-gear"></i> Settings](https://semgrep.dev/orgs/-/settings/)**.
3. In the **Assistant** section, click the **<i class="fa-solid fa-gear"></i> Allow code snippets in AI prompts** toggle.
![Semgrep Assistant setup button](/img/semgrep-assistant-setup.png#md-width)
   This launches the **Set up Semgrep Assistant** prompt.
1. Follow the on-screen instructions to complete the setup process.
2. Navigate back to the **Deployment** page. Under the **Assistant** section, verify that all of the features are enabled:
   1. **Allow code snippets in AI prompts**: Required for Semgrep to auto-triage findings, provide AI remediation guidance, and tag findings with code context.
   2. **Autofix suggestions for Code**: Enable autofix suggestions in comments from Assistant. You can also set the minimum confidence level for Assistant-written fixes if the Semgrep rule doesn't include a human-written autofix.
   3. **Auto-triage for Code**: Enable notifications whenever Assistant suggests that a finding may be safe to ignore. You can include notifications in your PR and MR comments, or you can receive them through Slack notifications.
   4. **Weekly priority emails**: Get weekly emails with information on your top backlog tasks according to Assistant. Semgrep sends these emails to organization admins every Monday.
    ![Semgrep Assistant toggle location](/img/semgrep-assistant-enable.png)

</TabItem>
</Tabs>

### Enable autofix suggestions

Autofix allows you to receive code snippets to remediate true positives. Perform the following to enable it:

1. Sign in to Semgrep AppSec Platform, and navigate to **Settings > Deployment**.
2. In the **Assistant** section, click the **Autofix suggestions for Code** <i class="fa-solid fa-toggle-large-on"></i> if it is not yet enabled.
3. *Optional*: Select a **confidence level** in the drop-down box. This value determines the level of quality at which the autofix code appears as a suggestion. A lower confidence level means that Semgrep Assistant displays the autofix suggestion even when the code quality may be incorrect.
    :::tip
    Semgrep recommends setting a low confidence level since even incorrect suggestions may be useful starting points for triage and remediation.
    :::

### Enable auto-triage

If [auto-triage](/semgrep-assistant/overview/#auto-triage), which allows you to get notifications whenever Assistant indicates a finding may be safe to ignore, isn't enabled for your deployment, you can do so as follows:

1. Sign in to Semgrep AppSec Platform, and navigate to **Settings > Deployment**.
2. In the **Assistant** section, click the **Auto-triage for Code** <i class="fa-solid fa-toggle-large-on"></i> if it is not yet enabled.
3. Select whether you want alerts included in your **PR/MR comments** and **Slack notifications**.

![MR comment from Semgrep Assistant in GitLab](/img/assistant-gl-comment.png#md-width)
*Figure*. MR comment from Semgrep Assistant in GitLab.

#### Missing PR and comments
Semgrep Assistant messages only appear in your PR comments for rules that are set to Comment or Block mode on the Rule Management page. Ensure that:

* You have set rules to Comment or Block mode.
  ![ Policies modes](/img/semgrep-assistant-comment.png)
* You have selected PR/MR comments in **Semgrep AppSec Platform > Settings > Deployment** in the **Code** section.

### Add Memories (beta)

Assistant Memories allows AppSec teams and developers to tailor Assistant's remediation guidance to their organization's standards and defaults on a per-project, per-rule basis. Whenever Assistant gives a suggested fix, you can provide feedback by adding custom instructions.

Memories are enabled by default for all Assistant users.

To add a memory:

1. Identify the specific instance of **Assistant's suggested fix** that you want to modify. These can be found in the finding details page or in the PR or MR comment.
2. Click **Customize fix** to open an input box, and enter your preferred remediation approaches and secure defaults for the project. The suggestion you provide can be as general as "Use AWS Secrets Manager to manage secrets."
   ![Assistant’s suggested fix for a hardcoded secret in the user’s code](/img/memories-1.png#md-width)
   ***Figure***. Assistant’s suggested fix for a hardcoded secret in the user’s code.
3. Click **Save and regenerate**.
   ![User-provided custom instruction that Assistant uses to improve future guidance.](/img/memories-2.png#md-width)
   ***Figure***. User-provided custom instruction that Assistant uses to improve future guidance.
4. Assistant regenerates the suggested fix to reflect the instructions you provided.
   ![Regenerated Assistant fix using the user-provided instructions.](/img/memories-3.png#md-width)
   ***Figure***. Regenerated Assistant fix using the user-provided instructions.

While Assistant Memories is in **public beta**, memories are scoped to remediation guidance on a per-project and per-rule basis. A saved memory only affects future guidance for findings triggered by the same rule in the same project.

#### Remove Memories

1. Sign in to [Semgrep AppSec Platform](https://semgrep.dev/login?return_path=/manage/projects) and navigate to [<i class="fa-solid fa-gear"></i> **Settings > Deployment**](https://semgrep.dev/orgs/-/settings).
2. In the **Assistant** section, click the <i class="fa-solid fa-gear"></i> **icon** next to **Customize with memories**.
3. Click the <i class="fa-solid fa-trash"></i> **icon** to remove the memory.

### Enable priority inbox

If [priority inbox](/semgrep-assistant/overview/#priority-inbox), which allows organization admins to receive information on top backlog tasks according to Assistant, isn't enabled for your deployment, you can do so as follows:

1. Sign in to Semgrep AppSec Platform, and navigate to **Settings > Deployment**.
2. In the **Assistant** section, click the **Weekly priority emails** <i class="fa-solid fa-toggle-large-on"></i> if it is not yet enabled.

## Analyze findings

Once you've enabled Assistant, you can use the **Analyze** button on the [Findings page](/semgrep-code/findings) to trigger all Assistant functions, including autofix, auto-triage, and component tagging, on existing findings.

![Assistant Analyze button on Findings page](/img/scp-assistant.png#md-width)

To analyze your findings with Assistant:

1. On the [Findings](https://semgrep.dev/orgs/-/findings?tab=open) page, select the findings that you want Assistant to analyze.
2. Click **Analyze**.
3. In the confirmation window that appears, confirm that you want to analyze your findings with Assistant.

After Assistant performs these functions, you can see your results on the **Findings** page using the **Recommendation** or **Component** filters. When viewing your findings, you can see false positive and true positive recommendations when viewing the finding details pages if you choose **No Grouping** instead of **Group by Rule**.

The amount of time required to analyze your findings varies, but the UI displays a notification that provides an estimated wait time.

:::info
There is a cap of 250 Assistant runs per month using the **Analyze** button. Assistant runs against pull requests and merge requests do not count against this limit.
:::

## View recommendations

You can [view all of Semgrep Assistant's recommendations](/semgrep-code/findings/#filter-findings) by going to the Semgrep **Findings** page and filtering by **Recommendation** or **Component**.

## Write custom rules (beta)

Semgrep Assistant can help you write custom rules to find issues specific to your codebase.

To do so:

1. Sign in to Semgrep AppSec Platform.
2. Navigate to **Rules > Editor**.
3. Click the **plus** button, and under **Generate with AI**, click **...with Semgrep Assistant**.
   ![The plus button to open up the custom rules editor](/img/assistant-launch-rules-editor.png#md-width)
4. In the **Generate rule with Semgrep Assistant** pop-up window:
   1. Select the language of your codebase.
   2. Provide a prompt describing what you want the rule to do in English.
   3. Optional: provide an example of bad code.
   4. Optional: provide an example of good code.
   ![Custom rule sample plus test window](/img/assistant-write-custom-rule.png#md-width)
5. Click **Generate** to proceed. You'll be redirected to a screen where you can view and copy your rule and test it against the sample bad code snippet you provided.
   ![Dialog box for custom rule parameters](/img/assistant-view-rule.png#md-width)
