docs/kb/integrations/defect-dojo-integration.md, before:

---
tags:
  - DefectDojo
  - Integrations
description: How to connect Semgrep and DefectDojo
---

# How to connect Semgrep and DefectDojo

[DefectDojo](https://www.defectdojo.com/) is a well-known vulnerability management tool. It allows you to gather security issues from tools like Semgrep and more. By integrating Semgrep findings into DefectDojo, security teams can gather security issues from multiple tools into one place and more effectively monitor their security posture.

## Integration
Follow these steps to prep DefectDojo and generate Semgrep findings in the proper format:

1. In DefectDojo:
    - Create your [**product**](https://defectdojo-dev.readthedocs.io/en/latest/features.html#products).
    - In that DefectDojo product, create an **engagement** called `semgrep`. An engagement is a channel to import results.
2. Run a semgrep scan with flags `--json --output report.json` to generate a JSON report.

Now, you are ready to use the [DefectDojo API](https://documentation.defectdojo.com/integrations/api-v2-docs/).

### DefectDojo API example 

To run API DefectDojo operations such as GET, POST, and DELETE, an API token is necessary. To get it, follow the [API guide](https://documentation.defectdojo.com/integrations/api-v2-docs/).

Once you have a token, store it as an environment variable named `DEFECT_DOJO_API_TOKEN`:
```bash
export DEFECT_DOJO_API_TOKEN=[YOUR_DEFECT_DOJO_TOKEN]
```
When exploring the DefectDojo API, you will notice the `/api/v2/import-scan/` endpoint is used for the first import and the `/api/v2/reimport-scan` endpoint is used for following imports.

These endpoints can receive some parameters, the following of which must be specified:
* `file`: The Semgrep scan findings report or export in JSON format
* `scan_type`: A descriptive name for the scan type. In this example, we use "Semgrep JSON Report" for Semgrep importation.
* `product_name`: The name of the product in DefectDojo to send the Semgrep findings report to.
* `engagement_name`: Depending on your use case, the [`engagement_name`](https://defectdojo-dev.readthedocs.io/en/latest/about.html#engagements) can describe a moment in time that the test is taking place in, or it can be used as a simple description about the import. In this case, you can name it `semgrep`.

Here is an example snippet of a Python function using this endpoint:

```python
def uploadToDefectDojo(is_new_import, token, url, product_name, engagement_name, filename):
    multipart_form_data = {
        'file': (filename, open(filename, 'rb')),
        'scan_type': (None, 'Semgrep JSON Report'),
        'product_name': (None, product_name),
        'engagement_name': (None, engagement_name),
    }

    endpoint = '/api/v2/import-scan/' if is_new_import else '/api/v2/reimport-scan/'
    r = requests.post(
        url + endpoint,
        files=multipart_form_data,
        headers={
            'Authorization': 'Token ' + token,
        }
    )
    if r.status_code != 200:
        sys.exit(f'Post failed: {r.text}')
    print(r.text)
```

The full version of this Python script can be found [here](https://github.com/r2c-CSE/semgrep-utilities/blob/main/integrations/defectdojo/import_semgrep_to_defect_dojo.py). Feel free to use this in your own environment after reviewing the script to make sure it works for you.

### Running the script

To continue with the above example and run the script, execute the following command:
```bash
python3 integrations/defectdojo/import_semgrep_to_defect_dojo.py --host DOJO_URL --product PRODUCT_NAME --engagement ENGAGEMENT_NAME --report REPORT_FILE 
```
Where:
* `DOJO_URL` is the URL where DefectDojo is.
* `PRODUCT_NAME` is the DefectDojo product name.
* `ENGAGEMENT_NAME` is the DefectDojo engagement name for that product.
* `REPORT_FILE` is the Semgrep report path

## Integrating Semgrep and DefectDojo in a CI pipeline

To prevent tampering of findings at any point of delivery, it is crucial to integrate importing of scan results to DefectDojo in the **same pipeline or CI job** as the scan itself.
The following is an example of a GitLab job importing Semgrep findings to DefectDojo:

```yaml
import-semgrep-to-defectdojo:
  stage: import
  image: python:3.9-bullseye
  script:
    - echo "Importing Semgrep scan to DefectDojo"
    - pip3 install requests
    - curl -O https://raw.githubusercontent.com/r2c-CSE/semgrep-utilities/main/integrations/defectdojo/import_semgrep_to_defect_dojo.py
    # Adding checksum validation
    - echo $IMPORT_SEMGREP_TO_DEFECTDOJO_SHA_CHECKSUM > sha-import-dd.tmp
    - shasum -a 256 -U -c sha-import-dd.tmp
    - python3 import_semgrep_to_defect_dojo.py --host $DEFECTDOJO_URL --product $PRODUCT --engagement semgrep --report report.json || true
  rules:
    # Scan changed files in MRs, (diff-aware scanning):
    - if: $CI_MERGE_REQUEST_IID
    # Scan mainline (default) branches and report all findings.
    - if: $CI_COMMIT_BRANCH == $CI_DEFAULT_BRANCH
  tags:
    - defectdojo
  variables:
    DEFECT_DOJO_API_TOKEN: $DEFECT_DOJO_API_TOKEN
```

:::tip
As a good security practice, this pipeline includes checksum validation for the import script, to ensure that the script has not been tampered with.
:::

## Conclusions
If you use multiple vulnerability tools, including Semgrep, importing results to [DefectDojo](https://www.defectdojo.com/) can be helpful in managing data across all of these tools.

Commit message:

Vale linting & other wording cleanup for KBs (#1209)
Co-authored-by: s-santillan <sarasantillan@gmail.com>

docs/kb/integrations/defect-dojo-integration.md, after:

---
tags:
  - DefectDojo
  - Integrations
description: How to connect Semgrep and DefectDojo
---

# How to connect Semgrep and DefectDojo

[DefectDojo](https://www.defectdojo.com/) is a well-known vulnerability management tool. It allows you to gather security issues from other tools, including Semgrep. By integrating Semgrep findings into DefectDojo, security teams can more easily monitor their overall security posture.

## Integration
Follow these steps to prepare DefectDojo and generate Semgrep findings in the proper format:

1. In DefectDojo:
    1. Create your [**product**](https://defectdojo.github.io/django-DefectDojo/usage/models/#products).
    2. In that DefectDojo product, create an [engagement](https://defectdojo.github.io/django-DefectDojo/usage/models/#engagement) called `semgrep`. This is a CI/CD engagement type.
2. Run a semgrep scan with flags `--json --output report.json` to generate a JSON report.

Now, you are ready to use the [DefectDojo API](https://defectdojo.github.io/django-DefectDojo/integrations/api-v2-docs/).

### DefectDojo API example 

To run API DefectDojo operations such as GET, POST, and DELETE, an API token is necessary. To get it, follow the [API guide](https://defectdojo.github.io/django-DefectDojo/integrations/api-v2-docs/).

Once you have a token, store it as an environment variable named `DEFECT_DOJO_API_TOKEN`:
```bash
export DEFECT_DOJO_API_TOKEN=[YOUR_DEFECT_DOJO_TOKEN]
```

The DefectDojo API uses the `/api/v2/import-scan/` endpoint for the first import and the `/api/v2/reimport-scan` endpoint for following imports.

These endpoints take the following parameters:

* `file`: The Semgrep scan findings report or export in JSON format.
* `scan_type`: A descriptive name for the scan type. In this example, the scan type is "Semgrep JSON Report`".
* `product_name`: The name of the product in DefectDojo to send the Semgrep findings report to.
* `engagement_name`: The name of the engagement you created the preceding "Integration" section. In this example, `semgrep`.

Here is an example snippet of a Python function using this endpoint:

```python
def uploadToDefectDojo(is_new_import, token, url, product_name, engagement_name, filename):
    multipart_form_data = {
        'file': (filename, open(filename, 'rb')),
        'scan_type': (None, 'Semgrep JSON Report'),
        'product_name': (None, product_name),
        'engagement_name': (None, engagement_name),
    }

    endpoint = '/api/v2/import-scan/' if is_new_import else '/api/v2/reimport-scan/'
    r = requests.post(
        url + endpoint,
        files=multipart_form_data,
        headers={
            'Authorization': 'Token ' + token,
        }
    )
    if r.status_code != 200:
        sys.exit(f'Post failed: {r.text}')
    print(r.text)
```

The full version of this Python script can be found [here](https://github.com/r2c-CSE/semgrep-utilities/blob/main/integrations/defectdojo/import_semgrep_to_defect_dojo.py). Feel free to use this in your own environment after reviewing the script to make sure it works for you.

### Running the script

To continue with the preceding example and run the script, execute the following command:

<pre class="language-bash"><code>python3 integrations/defectdojo/import_semgrep_to_defect_dojo.py --host <span className="placeholder">DOJO_URL</span> --product <span className="placeholder">PRODUCT_NAME</span> --engagement <span className="placeholder">ENGAGEMENT_NAME</span> --report <span className="placeholder">REPORT_FILE</span></code></pre>

Where:

* `DOJO_URL` is the URL where DefectDojo is.
* `PRODUCT_NAME` is the DefectDojo product name.
* `ENGAGEMENT_NAME` is the DefectDojo engagement name for that product.
* `REPORT_FILE` is the Semgrep report path.

## Integrating Semgrep and DefectDojo in a CI pipeline

To prevent tampering with findings, it is crucial to import scan results to DefectDojo in the **same pipeline or CI job** as the scan itself.

The following is an example of a GitLab job importing Semgrep findings to DefectDojo:

```yaml
import-semgrep-to-defectdojo:
  stage: import
  image: python:3.9-bullseye
  script:
    - echo "Importing Semgrep scan to DefectDojo"
    - pip3 install requests
    - curl -O https://raw.githubusercontent.com/r2c-CSE/semgrep-utilities/main/integrations/defectdojo/import_semgrep_to_defect_dojo.py
    # Adding checksum validation
    - echo $IMPORT_SEMGREP_TO_DEFECTDOJO_SHA_CHECKSUM > sha-import-dd.tmp
    - shasum -a 256 -U -c sha-import-dd.tmp
    - python3 import_semgrep_to_defect_dojo.py --host $DEFECTDOJO_URL --product $PRODUCT --engagement semgrep --report report.json || true
  rules:
    # Scan changed files in MRs, (diff-aware scanning):
    - if: $CI_MERGE_REQUEST_IID
    # Scan mainline (default) branches and report all findings.
    - if: $CI_COMMIT_BRANCH == $CI_DEFAULT_BRANCH
  tags:
    - defectdojo
  variables:
    DEFECT_DOJO_API_TOKEN: $DEFECT_DOJO_API_TOKEN
```

:::tip
As a good security practice, this pipeline includes checksum validation for the import script, to ensure that the script has not been tampered with.
:::

## Conclusions

If you use multiple vulnerability tools, including Semgrep, importing results to [DefectDojo](https://www.defectdojo.com/) can be helpful in managing data across all of these tools.
