docs/deployment/cloud-scanning.md, before:

---
slug: cloud-scanning
title: Add repositories to Semgrep in bulk (beta)
hide_title: true
description: Semgrep cloud scanning enables you to add repositories to your Semgrep org in bulk without changing your CI workflows.
tags:
  - Deployment
  - Semgrep AppSec Platform
---

# Add repositories to Semgrep in bulk

**Semgrep cloud scanning** enables you to add repositories to your Semgrep org in bulk without adding or changing your CI workflows.

This is an alternative method to [adding Semgrep in CI](/deployment/add-semgrep-to-ci). Instead of adding a Semgrep job or workflow to your CI/CD pipeline, repositories are added to Semgrep AppSec Platform.

## Feature maturity and support

- Cloud scanning is in **public beta**.
- tk how to leave feedback
- Cloud scanning supports hosted GitHub (GitHub.com) and GitHub Enterprise Server plans.

## Requirements

Cloud scanning requires **[<i class="fas fa-external-link fa-xs"></i> read access](https://docs.github.com/en/rest/authentication/permissions-required-for-github-apps?apiVersion=2022-11-28)** to your code in GitHub for the repositories you choose to scan. Semgrep clones your repository at the beginning of every scan. Once the scan completes, the clone is destroyed and is not persisted anywhere.

The access to your code is facilitated by a private Semgrep GitHub app that you create and register in your GitHub organization.

- You are in control of the app and can revoke access to any repository at any time.
- You can limit access to specific repositories.

<!-- Sara to provide steps on how to do both -->

## Prerequisites

### Install the public Semgrep GitHub app

If you have already installed the public Semgrep GitHub app, skip this step and proceed to Install the private Semgrep GitHub app.

1. Sign in to [<i class="fas fa-external-link fa-xs"></i> Semgrep AppSec Platform](https://semgrep.dev/login).
1. Click **<i class="fa-solid fa-gear"></i> Settings > Source Code Managers**.
1. Click **Connect to GitHub**.
1. Follow the steps to connect to your GitHub organization.

### Install the private Semgrep GitHub app

The private app must be installed by a **GitHub organization administrator**. If you are not a GitHub admin, an installation link is provided for you to share with your GitHub admin.

1. Click **<i class="fa-solid fa-gear"></i> Settings > Source Code Managers**.
1. Click **Register App**.
![DESCRIPTION-tk](/img/scm-create-private-app.png)
1. Follow the steps to install a private GitHub app in your org. Ensure that you enter your exact GitHub organization name and the correct type of GitHub account, typically Organization.
1. Click **Register GitHub App**.
1. If you are an admin on the GitHub organization, click **Continue**. Otherwise, share the provided link with your GitHub administrator.
![DESCRIPTION-tk](/img/scm-confirm-private-app.png#sm-width-noborder)
1. Follow the prompts in GitHub to install the private app.

## Add a repository

1. In Semgrep AppSec Platform, click **<i class="fa-solid fa-folder-open"></i> Projects**.
1. Click **Scan New Project > Semgrep Cloud Scan**.
1. Select the repositories you want to scan from the list.
1. Click **Enable Cloud Scanning**.

After enabling cloud scanning, a full scan starts immediately on all the repositories you have added. <!-- may be false, initial scan may start up to 6 days after, will double check -->

Once a repository has been added to Semgrep AppSec Platform, it becomes a **project**. A project in Semgrep AppSec Platform includes all the findings and scan metadata of that repository.

Repositories with **existing** Semgrep CI jobs are **excluded** from the list. See the following section to convert your existing Semgrep CI jobs to cloud scanning.

<!-- This next section is totally unverified. Sara should probably test this out -->

### Convert an existing Semgrep CI job

If you'd like to convert a large number of Semgrep CI jobs to cloud scanning, you can reach out to your technical account manager (TAM) for assistance.

1. Delete the project (link-tk)
1. Delete its configuration file, typically named `semgrep.yml`, from your CI pipeline.
1. Follow the steps in [Add a repository](#add-a-repository). The repository should be available on the list.

:::warning
Deleting a project also deletes all of its associated history, findings and scan metadata. When you re-add the repository, it is treated as a new project.
:::

## Default configuration

By default, repositories onboarded to Cloud Scanning are configured with:

- **Weekly full scans** of the entire repository at a random day and time. <!-- clarify how this randomness works, it's the same time and day every week -->
- **Diff scans** on pull requests that run on every PR. These diff scans follow the rule modes set in your policies so developers are only notified in cases where you want them to through the Comment rule mode. <!-- needs reword -->

## Scan management and configuration

### Manually run a full scan

1. In Semgrep AppSec Platform, click **<i class="fa-solid fa-folder-open"></i> Projects**.
1. Search for your repository's name.
1. Click the **<i class="fa-solid fa-gear"></i> gear icon** to access the settings page for that repository.
1. Click **Run a new scan**.

### Disable diff scans on PRs

1. In Semgrep AppSec Platform, click **<i class="fa-solid fa-folder-open"></i> Projects**.
1. Search for your repository's name.
1. Click the **<i class="fa-solid fa-gear"></i> gear icon** to access the settings page for that repository.
1. tk disable the toggle AutoScan diff scans (beta)

### Remove a repository

1. In Semgrep AppSec Platform, click **<i class="fa-solid fa-folder-open"></i> Projects**.
1. Search for your repository's name.
1. Click the **<i class="fa-solid fa-gear"></i> gear icon** to access the settings page for that repository.
1. Click the dropdown at the header and click **Delete project**.

## Appendix

### Load management

When you add a large number of repositories (100+), they are ...

### Scan logs and statistics

tk

Commit message:

update the steps with anchor links

docs/deployment/cloud-scanning.md, after:

---
slug: cloud-scanning
title: Add repositories to Semgrep in bulk (beta)
hide_title: true
description: Semgrep cloud scanning enables you to add repositories to your Semgrep org in bulk without changing your CI workflows.
tags:
  - Deployment
  - Semgrep AppSec Platform
---

# Add repositories to Semgrep in bulk

**Semgrep cloud scanning** enables you to add repositories to your Semgrep org in bulk without adding or changing your CI workflows.

This is an alternative method to [adding Semgrep in CI](/deployment/add-semgrep-to-ci). Instead of adding a Semgrep job or workflow to your CI/CD pipeline, repositories are added to Semgrep AppSec Platform.

## Feature maturity and support

- Cloud scanning is in **public beta**.
- tk how to leave feedback
- Cloud scanning supports hosted GitHub (GitHub.com) and GitHub Enterprise Server plans.

## Requirements

Cloud scanning requires **[<i class="fas fa-external-link fa-xs"></i> read access](https://docs.github.com/en/rest/authentication/permissions-required-for-github-apps?apiVersion=2022-11-28)** to your code in GitHub for the repositories you choose to scan. Semgrep clones your repository at the beginning of every scan. Once the scan completes, the clone is destroyed and is not persisted anywhere.

The access to your code is facilitated by a **private Semgrep GitHub app** that you create and register in your GitHub organization.

- You are in control of the app and can [revoke access to repositories](#remove-the-private-app) at any time.
- You can [limit access to specific repositories](#limit-access-to-specific-repositories).

<!-- Sara to provide steps on how to do both -->

## Prerequisites

### Install the public Semgrep GitHub app

If you have already installed the public Semgrep GitHub app, skip this step and proceed to Install the private Semgrep GitHub app.

1. Sign in to [<i class="fas fa-external-link fa-xs"></i> Semgrep AppSec Platform](https://semgrep.dev/login).
1. Click **<i class="fa-solid fa-gear"></i> Settings > Source Code Managers**.
1. Click **Connect to GitHub**.
1. Follow the steps to connect to your GitHub organization.

### Install the private Semgrep GitHub app

The private app must be installed by a **GitHub organization administrator**. If you are not a GitHub admin, an installation link is provided for you to share with your GitHub admin.

1. Click **<i class="fa-solid fa-gear"></i> Settings > Source Code Managers**.
1. Click **Register App**.
![DESCRIPTION-tk](/img/scm-create-private-app.png)
1. Follow the steps to install a private GitHub app in your org. Ensure that you enter your exact GitHub organization name and the correct type of GitHub account, typically Organization.
1. Click **Register GitHub App**.
1. If you are an admin on the GitHub organization, click **Continue**. Otherwise, share the provided link with your GitHub administrator.
![DESCRIPTION-tk](/img/scm-confirm-private-app.png#sm-width-noborder)
1. Follow the prompts in GitHub to install the private app.

## Add a repository

1. In Semgrep AppSec Platform, click **<i class="fa-solid fa-folder-open"></i> Projects**.
1. Click **Scan New Project > Semgrep Cloud Scan**.
1. Select the repositories you want to scan from the list.
1. Click **Enable Cloud Scanning**.

After enabling cloud scanning, a full scan starts immediately on all the repositories you have added. <!-- may be false, initial scan may start up to 6 days after, will double check -->

Once a repository has been added to Semgrep AppSec Platform, it becomes a **project**. A project in Semgrep AppSec Platform includes all the findings and scan metadata of that repository.

Repositories with **existing** Semgrep CI jobs are **excluded** from the list. See the following section to convert your existing Semgrep CI jobs to cloud scanning.

<!-- This next section is totally unverified. Sara should probably test this out -->

### Convert an existing Semgrep CI job

If you'd like to convert a large number of Semgrep CI jobs to cloud scanning, you can reach out to your technical account manager (TAM) for assistance.

1. Delete the project (link-tk)
1. Delete its configuration file, typically named `semgrep.yml`, from your CI pipeline.
1. Follow the steps in [Add a repository](#add-a-repository). The repository should be available on the list.

:::warning
Deleting a project also deletes all of its associated history, findings and scan metadata. When you re-add the repository, it is treated as a new project.
:::

## Default configuration

By default, repositories onboarded to Cloud Scanning are configured with:

- **Weekly full scans** of the entire repository at a random day and time. <!-- clarify how this randomness works, it's the same time and day every week -->
- **Diff scans** on pull requests that run on every PR. These diff scans follow the rule modes set in your policies so developers are only notified in cases where you want them to through the Comment rule mode. <!-- needs reword -->

## Scan management and configuration

### Manually run a full scan

1. In Semgrep AppSec Platform, click **<i class="fa-solid fa-folder-open"></i> Projects**.
1. Search for your repository's name.
1. Click the **<i class="fa-solid fa-gear"></i> gear icon** to access the settings page for that repository.
1. Click **Run a new scan**.

### Disable diff scans on PRs

1. In Semgrep AppSec Platform, click **<i class="fa-solid fa-folder-open"></i> Projects**.
1. Search for your repository's name.
1. Click the **<i class="fa-solid fa-gear"></i> gear icon** to access the settings page for that repository.
1. tk turn off the toggle for AutoScan diff scans (beta)

### Remove a repository

1. In Semgrep AppSec Platform, click **<i class="fa-solid fa-folder-open"></i> Projects**.
1. Search for your repository's name.
1. Click the **<i class="fa-solid fa-gear"></i> gear icon** to access the settings page for that repository.
1. Click the dropdown at the header and click **Delete project**.

## Revoke Semgrep's access to your repositories

### Remove the private app

The following steps revoke the code access you previously granted Semgrep for all repositories you selected.

1. In Semgrep AppSec Platform, click **<i class="fa-solid fa-gear"></i> Settings > Source Code Managers**.
1. On the entry of the SCM you want to remove, click **Remove app**.
1. Click **Remove** to confirm.

### Limit access to specific repositories

tk write out

## Appendix

### Permissions

Both the public and private Semgrep GitHub app must have access to the repositories you want to scan. You can view

### Load management

When you add a large number of repositories (100+), they are ...

### Scan logs and statistics

tk
