---
slug: tokens
title: Tokens
hide_title: true
description: Manage tokens used to authorize requests to Semgrep AppSec Platform and API.
tags:
  - Deployment
  - Semgrep AppSec Platform
  - API
---

# Access tokens

An access token is a secure credential used to authorize requests to Semgrep AppSec Platform or the Semgrep API without a username and password. Each token is associated with a specific Semgrep account and has a defined set of [scopes](#token-scopes) that determine the permissions granted to its bearer.

## Types of access tokens

Semgrep uses the following types of access tokens:

- API tokens
- CLI tokens
- Semgrep service tokens

### API tokens

API tokens can be created by admins and are used for calls to the Semgrep API and third-party integrations. For auditing purposes, API tokens are associated with the user who created them. However, they remain valid until manually revoked, even if the creator is no longer associated with the deployment.

### CLI tokens

CLI tokens authenticate users who run scans or publish rules from the Semgrep CLI. Both members and admins of a deployment can create CLI tokens. The CLI token allows users to run scans on their local machine using the `semgrep ci` command. This sends findings data to Semgrep AppSec Platform. It also allows users to [publish rules](/writing-rules/private-rules#creating-private-rules) using `semgrep publish`.

For auditing purposes, Semgrep [records the user who generated the CLI token](https://semgrep.dev/orgs/-/settings/tokens/cli), but the user's actions are attributed to the token rather than the user.

Logging out of the Semgrep CLI with `semgrep logout` removes the local token, but it does not invalidate it.

### Semgrep service tokens 

Semgrep service tokens are functionally the same as API tokens, but instead of being manually generated by a user, they are automatically generated during repository onboarding for CI/CD scans. These tokens authenticate agents running automated scans within CI environments. The default scope for these tokens is Agent/CI, but admins can edit the token and grant them the API scope as well. 

## Token scopes

The following table displays the scopes assigned to each token:

| Token | Send findings from a remote repository | Send findings from a local repository | Send PR or MR comments | Connect to Semgrep API |
| - | - | - | - | - |
| API | ❌&nbsp;No | ❌&nbsp;No | ✔️&nbsp;Yes | ✔️&nbsp;Yes |
| CLI | ❌&nbsp;No | ✔️&nbsp;Yes | ❌&nbsp;No | ❌&nbsp;No |
| Service (CI) | ✔️&nbsp;Yes | ✔️&nbsp;Yes | ✔️&nbsp;Yes | ❌&nbsp;No |

The following table displays typical uses for token scopes:

| Token | Use |
| - | - |
| API | Used to access Semgrep's API |
| CLI | Auto-generated by Semgrep when a user is logging in through Semgrep CLI. Use this token to scan your code locally using your organization's configured policies, including private rules. |
| Service (CI) | Generated by Semgrep when onboarding (adding) a repository to Semgrep AppSec Platform. |

## View and manage tokens

You can view a list of tokens for your deployment [in Semgrep AppSec Platform under **Settings > Tokens**](https://semgrep.dev/orgs/-/settings/tokens).

Each token type has its own page that lists all existing tokens of that type. Use the search bar to help find a specific token. For **API tokens**, you can use the drop-down menu to view only those tokens associated with specific roles, such as **Admin** or **Member**.

### Create an API token

1. Sign in to [<i class="fas fa-external-link fa-xs"></i> Semgrep AppSec Platform](https://semgrep.dev/login).
2. Go to [**Settings > Tokens > API tokens**](https://semgrep.dev/orgs/-/settings/tokens/api).
3. Click **Create new token**.
4. Copy the **Secrets name** and the **Secrets value**, and save these values. The **Secrets value** is your token and is only shown at this time.
5. Select the **Token scopes**.
6. Optional: change the **Name** of the token. This is the value used in the list of tokens associated with your Semgrep deployment.
7. Click **Save** to proceed.

### Create a CLI token

Once you've [set up the Semgrep CLI](/getting-started/cli#set-up-semgrep), create a CLI token by running the following command:

```bash
semgrep login
```

Running this command launches a browser window, but you can also use the link that's returned in the CLI to proceed. In the **Semgrep CLI login** window, click **Activate** to proceed.

### Edit a token

1. Sign in to [<i class="fas fa-external-link fa-xs"></i> Semgrep AppSec Platform](https://semgrep.dev/login).
2. Go to **Settings > Tokens**.
3. Go to one of the following pages based on the type of token you're interested in: **API tokens**, **CLI tokens**, or **Semgrep service tokens**.
4. Find the token, and click **Edit**.
5. In the dialog that appears, change the **Token scopes** or the displayed **Name**.
6. Click **Save** to proceed.

### Revoke a token

1. Sign in to [<i class="fas fa-external-link fa-xs"></i> Semgrep AppSec Platform](https://semgrep.dev/login).
2. Go to **Settings > Tokens**.
3. Go to one of the following pages based on the type of token you're interested in: **API tokens**, **CLI tokens**, or **Semgrep service tokens**.
4. Find the token, and click **Revoke**.

