docs/kb/semgrep-supply-chain/ssc-python-lockfiles.md, before:

---
description: Generate various Python lock files to run Semgrep Supply Chain scans successfully.
tags:
  - Semgrep Supply Chain
  - Python
  - Lockfiles
  - requirements.txt
  - Pipfile.lock
  - Poetry.lock
---

# Generating Python lockfiles for Semgrep Supply Chain scans

To correctly scan all dependencies in a project, Semgrep Supply Chain requires a Python lockfile. This article describes methods to generate the following Python lockfiles:

* `requirements.txt`, including those in a requirements folder, such as `**/requirements/*.txt`
* `requirements.pip`
* `Pipfile.lock`
* `Poetry.lock`

You can use any of these three lockfiles to get a successful Semgrep Supply Chain scan. Your lockfiles must have one of these three names in order to be scanned.

## Generating `requirements.txt`

### Using `requirements.in`

:::info Prerequisites
* A `requirements.in` file with direct Python packages. Do not include transitive packages in `requirements.in`.
* `pip-tools` must be installed on your machine. See the [pip-tools GitHub repository](https://github.com/jazzband/pip-tools) for installation instructions.
:::


To generate a `requirements.txt` file from `requirements.in`, enter the following command in the root of your project directory:

```bash
pip-compile -o requirements.txt
```

Now, you have successfully generated a `requirements.txt` file with direct and transitive dependencies that Semgrep Supply Chain can scan.

#### Example of `requirements.txt` generated from `requirements.in`

Given the following example project [Binder examples](https://github.com/sebastianrevuelta/binder-examples/), the `requirements.in` file contains the following direct dependencies: 

```
numpy
matplotlib==3.*
seaborn==0.10.1
pandas
```

Executing the command `pip-compile -o requirements.txt`, generates the following `requirements.txt`:

```
#
# This file is autogenerated by pip-compile with Python 3.10
# by the following command:
#
#    pip-compile --output-file=requirements.txt
#
contourpy==1.0.7
    # via matplotlib
cycler==0.11.0
    # via matplotlib
fonttools==4.39.4
    # via matplotlib
kiwisolver==1.4.4
    # via matplotlib
matplotlib==3.7.1
    # via
    #   -r requirements.in
    #   seaborn
numpy==1.24.3
    # via
    #   -r requirements.in
    #   contourpy
    #   matplotlib
    #   pandas
    #   scipy
    #   seaborn
packaging==23.1
    # via matplotlib
pandas==2.0.2
    # via
    #   -r requirements.in
    #   seaborn
pillow==9.5.0
    # via matplotlib
pyparsing==3.0.9
    # via matplotlib
python-dateutil==2.8.2
    # via
    #   matplotlib
    #   pandas
pytz==2023.3
    # via pandas
scipy==1.10.1
    # via seaborn
seaborn==0.10.1
    # via -r requirements.in
six==1.16.0
    # via python-dateutil
tzdata==2023.3
    # via pandas
```

This file has all direct and transitive dependencies of the example project and can be used by Semgrep as an entry point for the supply chain scan.

### Using `pip freeze`

:::info Prerequisites

* The `pip freeze` utility uses dependencies from packages already installed in your current environment to generate `requirements.txt`. You must be in an isolated or [virtual environment](https://docs.python.org/3/library/venv.html).
* An existing `setup.py` file.

:::

To generate `requirements.txt` through `pip freeze`, enter the following commands:

```bash
pip3 install .
pip freeze --all > tee requirements.txt
```

### Example CI configuration

The following GitHub Actions workflow provides an example on how to generate `requirements.txt` in a CI environment based on the preceding methods.

In the following example there are two jobs:
* `my_first_job`: Generating `requirements.txt` and uploading it as an artifact
* `my_second_job`: Downloading the artifact and scanning it with Semgrep

```yaml
on:
  pull_request: {}
  workflow_dispatch: {}
  push:
    branches:
    - master
    paths:
    - .github/workflows/semgrep.yml
  schedule:
    - cron: '0 1 * * 0'
name: Semgrep
jobs:
  my_first_job: 
    name: requirementsGeneration
    runs-on: ubuntu-latest
    steps:
      - uses: actions/checkout@v4
      - name: Generate requirements txt
        run: |
          pip3 install pip-tools
          pip-compile -o requirements.txt
      - name: Upload Requirements File as Artifact
        uses: actions/upload-artifact@v3
        with:
          name: requirementstxt
          path: requirements.txt
  my_second_job:
    needs: my_first_job
    name: Scan
    runs-on: ubuntu-20.04
    env:
      SEMGREP_APP_TOKEN: ${{ secrets.SEMGREP_APP_TOKEN }}
    container:
      image: semgrep/semgrep
    steps:
      - uses: actions/checkout@v4
      - name: Download artifact from previous job
        uses: actions/download-artifact@v3
        with:
          name: requirementstxt
      - run: semgrep ci --supply-chain

``` 

## Generating `Pipfile.lock`

:::info Prerequisite
An existing `Pipfile`. Depending on your development environment, a Pipfile may already be automatically generated for you.
:::

### Example of `Pipfile`

`````
[[source]]
url = "https://pypi.org/simple"
verify_ssl = true
name = "pypi"

[packages]
flasgger = "==0.9.5"
flask = "==2.2.2"
flask-cors = "==3.0.10"
marshmallow = "==3.18.0"
requests = "==2.25.1"
sqlalchemy = "==1.4.41"
waitress = "==2.1.2"
psycopg2 = "==2.9.5"
defusedxml = "==0.7.1"

[dev-packages]

[requires]
python_version = "3.9"
`````

### Generating a `Pipfile.lock`

Generate a `Pipfile.lock` with the following commands:

```
pip install pipenv --user
pipenv lock
```

The newly generated `Pipfile.lock` is a JSON file with all Python dependencies (direct and transitive) and their sha256 code.

The beginning of the file may look something like this:

```json
{
    "_meta": {
        "hash": {
            "sha256": "af0d5c3f87bd23f340a214b12ad766ca83aead0c462aa08dbc4f012ac2796708"
        },
        "pipfile-spec": 6,
        "requires": {
            "python_version": "3.9"
        },
        "sources": [
            {
                "name": "pypi",
                "url": "https://pypi.org/simple",
                "verify_ssl": true
            }
        ]
    },
    "default": {
        "attrs": {
            "hashes": [
                "sha256:1f28b4522cdc2fb4256ac1a020c78acf9cba2c6b461ccd2c126f3aa8e8335d04",
                "sha256:6279836d581513a26f1bf235f9acd333bc9115683f14f7e8fae46c98fc50e015"
            ],
            "markers": "python_version >= '3.7'",
            "version": "==23.1.0"
        },
```

## Generating `Poetry.lock`

[Poetry](https://python-poetry.org/) is a tool for dependency management and packaging in Python.

:::info Prerequisite
A `pyproject.toml` file.
:::

### Example `pyproject.toml`

```
[build-system]
requires = ["poetry-core>=1.1.0"]
build-backend = "poetry.core.masonry.api"

[tool.poetry]
name = "example-project"
version = "1.0.0"
description = "An example project"
authors = ["Your Name <yourname@example.com>"]

[tool.poetry.dependencies]
python = "^3.9"
requests = "^2.25.1"
numpy = "^1.21.0"

[tool.poetry.dev-dependencies]
pytest = "^6.2.4"
flake8 = "^3.9.2"

[build-system]
requires = ["poetry-core>=1.0.0"]
build-backend = "poetry.core.masonry.api"
```

### Generating a `Poetry.lock`

Generate a `Poetry.lock` file with the following command:

```bash
poetry lock
```

The generated `Poetry.lock` file contains all transitive and direct dependencies that the project uses.

## Selecting a single lockfile among many

While there may already be a lockfile in the repository, such as a `Pipfile.lock`, you may want to generate a new one, for example a `requirements.txt`, to be sure it has the latest dependencies.

When scanning with Semgrep Supply Chain, you can use the flag `--include` to specify that only a single lockfile should be scanned. The lockfile must still have one of the supported names.

```
semgrep ci --supply-chain --include=requirements.txt
```

## Conclusions

There are several ways to generate lockfiles for Python dependencies. Depending on your preferences, you can select one or another. Keep in mind that the lockfile should be generated before the Semgrep scan and within the proper environment. This ensures that you are scanning only the dependencies of your project and not all the Python dependencies of your system.

Commit message:

add info re: requirements.pip

docs/kb/semgrep-supply-chain/ssc-python-lockfiles.md, after:

---
description: Generate various Python lock files to run Semgrep Supply Chain scans successfully.
tags:
  - Semgrep Supply Chain
  - Python
  - Lockfiles
  - requirements.txt
  - Pipfile.lock
  - Poetry.lock
---

# Generating Python lockfiles for Semgrep Supply Chain scans

To correctly scan all dependencies in a project, Semgrep Supply Chain requires a Python lockfile. This article describes methods to generate the following Python lockfiles:

* `requirements.txt`, including those in a requirements folder, such as `**/requirements/*.txt`
* `requirements.pip`
* `Pipfile.lock`
* `Poetry.lock`

You can use any of these three lockfiles to get a successful Semgrep Supply Chain scan. Your lockfiles must have one of these three names in order to be scanned.

## Generating `requirements.txt`

### Using `requirements.in`

:::info Prerequisites
* A `requirements.in` file with direct Python packages. Do not include transitive packages in `requirements.in`.
* `pip-tools` must be installed on your machine. See the [pip-tools GitHub repository](https://github.com/jazzband/pip-tools) for installation instructions.
:::


To generate a `requirements.txt` file from `requirements.in`, enter the following command in the root of your project directory:

```bash
pip-compile -o requirements.txt
```

> Semgrep can also use the file if you change the extension of `requirements.txt` to `requirements.pip`.

Now, you have successfully generated a `requirements.txt` file with direct and transitive dependencies that Semgrep Supply Chain can scan.

#### Example of `requirements.txt` generated from `requirements.in`

Given the following example project [Binder examples](https://github.com/sebastianrevuelta/binder-examples/), the `requirements.in` file contains the following direct dependencies: 

```
numpy
matplotlib==3.*
seaborn==0.10.1
pandas
```

Executing the command `pip-compile -o requirements.txt`, generates the following `requirements.txt`:

```
#
# This file is autogenerated by pip-compile with Python 3.10
# by the following command:
#
#    pip-compile --output-file=requirements.txt
#
contourpy==1.0.7
    # via matplotlib
cycler==0.11.0
    # via matplotlib
fonttools==4.39.4
    # via matplotlib
kiwisolver==1.4.4
    # via matplotlib
matplotlib==3.7.1
    # via
    #   -r requirements.in
    #   seaborn
numpy==1.24.3
    # via
    #   -r requirements.in
    #   contourpy
    #   matplotlib
    #   pandas
    #   scipy
    #   seaborn
packaging==23.1
    # via matplotlib
pandas==2.0.2
    # via
    #   -r requirements.in
    #   seaborn
pillow==9.5.0
    # via matplotlib
pyparsing==3.0.9
    # via matplotlib
python-dateutil==2.8.2
    # via
    #   matplotlib
    #   pandas
pytz==2023.3
    # via pandas
scipy==1.10.1
    # via seaborn
seaborn==0.10.1
    # via -r requirements.in
six==1.16.0
    # via python-dateutil
tzdata==2023.3
    # via pandas
```

This file has all direct and transitive dependencies of the example project and can be used by Semgrep as an entry point for the supply chain scan.

### Using `pip freeze`

:::info Prerequisites

* The `pip freeze` utility uses dependencies from packages already installed in your current environment to generate `requirements.txt`. You must be in an isolated or [virtual environment](https://docs.python.org/3/library/venv.html).
* An existing `setup.py` file.

:::

To generate `requirements.txt` through `pip freeze`, enter the following commands:

```bash
pip3 install .
pip freeze --all > tee requirements.txt
```

### Example CI configuration

The following GitHub Actions workflow provides an example on how to generate `requirements.txt` in a CI environment based on the preceding methods.

In the following example there are two jobs:
* `my_first_job`: Generating `requirements.txt` and uploading it as an artifact
* `my_second_job`: Downloading the artifact and scanning it with Semgrep

```yaml
on:
  pull_request: {}
  workflow_dispatch: {}
  push:
    branches:
    - master
    paths:
    - .github/workflows/semgrep.yml
  schedule:
    - cron: '0 1 * * 0'
name: Semgrep
jobs:
  my_first_job: 
    name: requirementsGeneration
    runs-on: ubuntu-latest
    steps:
      - uses: actions/checkout@v4
      - name: Generate requirements txt
        run: |
          pip3 install pip-tools
          pip-compile -o requirements.txt
      - name: Upload Requirements File as Artifact
        uses: actions/upload-artifact@v3
        with:
          name: requirementstxt
          path: requirements.txt
  my_second_job:
    needs: my_first_job
    name: Scan
    runs-on: ubuntu-20.04
    env:
      SEMGREP_APP_TOKEN: ${{ secrets.SEMGREP_APP_TOKEN }}
    container:
      image: semgrep/semgrep
    steps:
      - uses: actions/checkout@v4
      - name: Download artifact from previous job
        uses: actions/download-artifact@v3
        with:
          name: requirementstxt
      - run: semgrep ci --supply-chain

``` 

## Generating `Pipfile.lock`

:::info Prerequisite
An existing `Pipfile`. Depending on your development environment, a Pipfile may already be automatically generated for you.
:::

### Example of `Pipfile`

`````
[[source]]
url = "https://pypi.org/simple"
verify_ssl = true
name = "pypi"

[packages]
flasgger = "==0.9.5"
flask = "==2.2.2"
flask-cors = "==3.0.10"
marshmallow = "==3.18.0"
requests = "==2.25.1"
sqlalchemy = "==1.4.41"
waitress = "==2.1.2"
psycopg2 = "==2.9.5"
defusedxml = "==0.7.1"

[dev-packages]

[requires]
python_version = "3.9"
`````

### Generating a `Pipfile.lock`

Generate a `Pipfile.lock` with the following commands:

```
pip install pipenv --user
pipenv lock
```

The newly generated `Pipfile.lock` is a JSON file with all Python dependencies (direct and transitive) and their sha256 code.

The beginning of the file may look something like this:

```json
{
    "_meta": {
        "hash": {
            "sha256": "af0d5c3f87bd23f340a214b12ad766ca83aead0c462aa08dbc4f012ac2796708"
        },
        "pipfile-spec": 6,
        "requires": {
            "python_version": "3.9"
        },
        "sources": [
            {
                "name": "pypi",
                "url": "https://pypi.org/simple",
                "verify_ssl": true
            }
        ]
    },
    "default": {
        "attrs": {
            "hashes": [
                "sha256:1f28b4522cdc2fb4256ac1a020c78acf9cba2c6b461ccd2c126f3aa8e8335d04",
                "sha256:6279836d581513a26f1bf235f9acd333bc9115683f14f7e8fae46c98fc50e015"
            ],
            "markers": "python_version >= '3.7'",
            "version": "==23.1.0"
        },
```

## Generating `Poetry.lock`

[Poetry](https://python-poetry.org/) is a tool for dependency management and packaging in Python.

:::info Prerequisite
A `pyproject.toml` file.
:::

### Example `pyproject.toml`

```
[build-system]
requires = ["poetry-core>=1.1.0"]
build-backend = "poetry.core.masonry.api"

[tool.poetry]
name = "example-project"
version = "1.0.0"
description = "An example project"
authors = ["Your Name <yourname@example.com>"]

[tool.poetry.dependencies]
python = "^3.9"
requests = "^2.25.1"
numpy = "^1.21.0"

[tool.poetry.dev-dependencies]
pytest = "^6.2.4"
flake8 = "^3.9.2"

[build-system]
requires = ["poetry-core>=1.0.0"]
build-backend = "poetry.core.masonry.api"
```

### Generating a `Poetry.lock`

Generate a `Poetry.lock` file with the following command:

```bash
poetry lock
```

The generated `Poetry.lock` file contains all transitive and direct dependencies that the project uses.

## Selecting a single lockfile among many

While there may already be a lockfile in the repository, such as a `Pipfile.lock`, you may want to generate a new one, for example a `requirements.txt`, to be sure it has the latest dependencies.

When scanning with Semgrep Supply Chain, you can use the flag `--include` to specify that only a single lockfile should be scanned. The lockfile must still have one of the supported names.

```
semgrep ci --supply-chain --include=requirements.txt
```

## Conclusions

There are several ways to generate lockfiles for Python dependencies. Depending on your preferences, you can select one or another. Keep in mind that the lockfile should be generated before the Semgrep scan and within the proper environment. This ensures that you are scanning only the dependencies of your project and not all the Python dependencies of your system.
