---
slug: findings
append_help_link: true
title: View findings
description: "The Code page allows users to view findings identified by Semgrep Code."
hide_title: true
toc_max_heading_level: 3
tags:
    - Semgrep Code
    - Semgrep AppSec Platform
---

import ExportFindingsCsv from "/src/components/procedure/_export-findings-csv.md"
import FindingsDefaultView from "/src/components/concept/_findings-default-view.mdx"
import TimePeriodFilters from "/src/components/concept/_time-period-filters.md"

# View findings in Semgrep AppSec Platform

Semgrep Code generates a **finding** when a rule matches a piece of code in your codebase. You can use Semgrep AppSec Platform's [**Code** page](https://semgrep.dev/orgs/-/findings) to view all of the findings generated by Semgrep Code after it scans your codebase.

## View findings

To view your findings in Semgrep AppSec Platform:

1. Log in to [Semgrep AppSec Platform](https://semgrep.dev/login).
2. In the **Navigation bar**, click **[Code](https://semgrep.dev/orgs/-/findings)**.

By default, Semgrep displays your **Priority** findings. Priority findings are defined as findings that have been:

- Categorized as **Security** findings. You can identify findings categorized under **Security** using the <i class="fas fa-shield-halved"></i> badge.
- Flagged with a severity level of **critical** or **high**
- Flagged with a confidence level of **high**
- Flagged by Semgrep Assistant as likely being a **true positive**

You can switch to the **All** tab at any point to view all findings identified by Semgrep Code. Both the **Priority** findings view and the **All** findings view display high-level information about your findings. Each finding in the list includes:

  - The name and description of the rule used to generate the finding.
  - The name of the project.
  - A link to the commit where the finding was first identified.
  - A link to the lines of code where the finding was most recently seen.

## Filter findings

Regardless of whether you use the **Priority** findings view or the **All** findings view, there are multiple grouping and filtering options available to you.

### Time period

<TimePeriodFilters />

### Project

The **Project** filter allows you to search for findings associated with the selected projects.

### Status

The **Status** filter allows you to search for findings in the selected statuses. See [Triage status](/semgrep-code/triage-remediation#triage-statuses) for additional information.

### Additional filters

Semgrep offers additional filters that you can use to narrow down your results. The following filters are available:

| Filter | Description |
| - | - |
| **Severity** | Filter by the severity of a finding. Severity is computed based on the values assigned for [Likelihood](/contributing/contributing-to-semgrep-rules-repository/#likelihood) and [Impact](/contributing/contributing-to-semgrep-rules-repository/#impact) by the rule's author. Possible values: <ul><li>Low</li><li>Medium</li><li>High</li><li>Critical</li></ul> |
| **Category** | Filter by the type of security issue or vulnerability the rule detects, such as `security`, `correctness`, and `maintainability`. You can select more than one category at a time. See [Finding categories](#finding-categories) for information on how Semgrep categorizes your findings. |
| **Confidence** | Filter by the likelihood of the rule to detect true positives. The higher the confidence, the more true positives the rule may detect. |
| **Rule mode** | Filter by monitoring, commenting, or blocking rules in your Policies. |
| **Rule** | Filter by rules included in your Policies page. You can select more than one rule or ruleset for filtering. |
| **Ruleset** | Filter by the ruleset name where rules that match the code belong. More than one rule or ruleset can be selected for filtering. |
| **Pro findings only** | Filter for findings identified using Semgrep Pro rules. Also includes findings originating from cross-file or cross-function analysis. |
| **Code lifecycle** | Filter for findings based on whether they are **Production** findings or **Pre-production** findings. **Production** findings are those identified on primary branches, while **Pre-production** findings are those identified on pull request or merge requests. |
| **Project tags** | Filter for findings based on the tags associated with the project. |
| **Teams** | Filter for findings in projects owned by the selected teams. |
| **Assistant file risk level** | Filter for findings based on Assistant's assessment of risk level of files based on the type of code identified. High-risk files contain sensitive information, such as authorization and authentication details, while low-risk files may be things like test files. You can further filter by file type, such as **payments** or **tests**. |
| **Assistant autotriage** | Filter by whether [Assistant autotriage](/semgrep-assistant/overview#auto-triage) has determined the finding to be a **True positive** or **False positive**. |

#### Finding categories

<details>
<summary>Expand to learn about how Semgrep categorizes your findings.</summary>

A finding can be categorized in two ways:

1. **Finding categorization based on the issue or code it detects**:

    - Anti-patterns
    - Security vulnerabilities, such as dangerous function usage
    - Business or logic bugs
    - Matches based on your own custom rules, such as organization-specific authentication logic

    Semgrep rules provide a metadata schema to identify these common categories. Semgrep findings include a `message` field that describes the security issue or bug found in matching code. Additionally, findings can provide a `fix` field that fixes the issue by creating a suggestion within your source code management (SCM) tool, such as GitHub, GitLab, and Bitbucket.

2. **Finding categorization based on the validity of the match**:

    - **True positive**: Rules are written to match a certain code pattern. A true positive is a genuine match. The rule is capturing the code as intended.
    - **False positive**: A false positive is a mismatch between the intended purpose of the rule and the code it matched. A finding is generated but does not meet the rule's intended need. Rules with a high false positivity rate are said to be **noisy**.
    - **False negative**: A false negative is a finding that should have been found by a rule, but was not. This can happen for two reasons:

      1. A flaw in the rule's logic. See <a href="/docs/reporting-false-negatives">Reporting false negatives</a>.
      2. A bug within Semgrep itself. See the list of <a href="https://github.com/semgrep/semgrep/issues">Semgrep issues</a> to file a bug report.
</details>

## Group and sort findings

By default, Semgrep displays your findings using the **Group by Rule** view. This view shows your findings grouped by the rule Semgrep used to match the code. Your findings are shown sorted **by severity**, but you can opt to sort **by number of findings** for a given rule.

For a given severity, Semgrep further sorts findings as follows:

1. Findings generated by custom rules
2. Findings generated by [Pro rules](/semgrep-code/pro-rules)
3. Issue count in descending order
4. Findings ID in ascending order

To view findings individually, click **Group & sort > No grouping**. Findings are displayed based on the date they were found, with the most recent finding listed at the top.

## Export findings

<ExportFindingsCsv />

## View details about a specific finding

To view in-depth information about a specific finding, select the finding whose details you want to view. Then:

- If the default **Group by Rule** is enabled, click the <i class="fa-regular fa-window-restore"></i> **Details** icon on the card of the finding.
- If the **No grouping** view is enabled, click the **header hyperlink** on the card of the finding.

The finding's details page displays in-depth information about the finding. It also allows you to perform actions such as updating the finding's status as needed, viewing links to any integrations available, such as associated Jira tickets, and communicating with your team regarding the finding. For example, you can add notes to the finding that anyone with access to the finding can see. See [View findings' details](/semgrep-code/finding-details) for more information.

## How Semgrep displays findings on multiple branches

<FindingsDefaultView product_name="Code" />

## Next steps

- Learn more about [viewing findings' details](/semgrep-code/finding-details).
- Learn how to [triage and remediate Semgrep Code findings](/semgrep-code/triage-remediation).
- Learn how to [get cross-file (interfile) findings for your organization](/semgrep-code/semgrep-pro-engine-intro)
- See [Semgrep Assistant for Semgrep Code](/semgrep-assistant/overview) for information on receiving AI-powered security recommendations when reviewing your findings.
