docs/semgrep-code/findings.md, before:

---
slug: findings
append_help_link: true
title: View findings
description: "The Findings page allows users to view findings identified by Semgrep Code."
hide_title: true
toc_max_heading_level: 5
tags:
    - Semgrep Code
    - Semgrep AppSec Platform
---

import DisplayTaintedDataIntro from "/src/components/concept/_semgrep-code-display-tainted-data.mdx"
import DisplayTaintedDataProcedure from "/src/components/procedure/_semgrep-code-display-tainted-data.mdx"

# View findings in Semgrep AppSec Platform

Semgrep Code generates a **finding** when a rule matches a piece of code in your codebase. You can use Semgrep AppSec Platform's [**Findings** page](https://semgrep.dev/orgs/-/findings) to view all of the findings generated by Semgrep Code after it scans your codebase.

![Semgrep AppSec Platform Findings page](/img/app-findings-overview.png#md-width)<br />

## Navigate to the Findings page

To access the [**Findings** page](https://semgrep.dev/orgs/-/findings):

1. Log in to [Semgrep AppSec Platform](https://semgrep.dev/login).
2. Click **[Code](https://semgrep.dev/orgs/-/findings)** to navigate to the **Findings** page.

## Findings page structure

The **Findings** page consists of:

- The **filter panel**, which you can use to group and filter for specific findings
- Information about findings identified by Semgrep Code. Each finding in the list includes:
  - The name and description of the rule used to generate the finding
  - The name of the project, as well as links to the Git branch and source code, where Semgrep Code identified the finding

### Group findings

By default, Semgrep groups all of the findings by the rule Semgrep used to match the code. This view is called the **Group by rule** view.

Semgrep sorts findings by severity. For a given severity, Semgrep further sorts findings as follows:

1. Findings generated by custom rules
2. Findings generated by [Pro rules](/semgrep-code/pro-rules)
3. Issue count in descending order
4. Findings ID in ascending order

![Findings grouped by rule](/img/app-findings.png#md-width)

To view findings individually, toggle **Group by Rule** to **No grouping** using the drop-down menu in the header. Findings are displayed based on the date they were found, with the most recent finding listed at the top.

![Group by Rule option](/img/cloud-platform-findings-no-grouping.png#md-width)

### Filter findings

Use filters to narrow down your results. The following criteria are available for filtering:

| Filter                 | Description  |
| ---------------------  | ------------ |
| **Projects**           | Filter by repositories connected to Semgrep AppSec Platform. |
| **Branches**           | Filter by findings in different Git branches. |
| **Teams**              | Filter for findings in projects to which the specified teams are associated with. Available only to organizations with RBAC enabled. |
| **Tags**               | Filter for findings based on the tags associated with the project. |
| **Status**             | Filter the triage state of a finding. Refer to [Triage statuses](/semgrep-code/triage-remediation#triage-statuses) to understand triage states. |
| **Severity**           | Filter by the severity of a finding. Severity is computed based on the values assigned for [Likelihood](/contributing/contributing-to-semgrep-rules-repository/#likelihood) and [Impact](/contributing/contributing-to-semgrep-rules-repository/#impact) by the rule's author. Possible values: <ul><li>Low</li><li>Medium</li><li>High</li></ul> |
| **Confidence**         | Filter by the likelihood of the rule to detect true positives. The higher the confidence, the more true positives the rule may detect. |
| **Pro findings**       | Filter for findings identified using Semgrep Pro rules. Also includes findings originating from Pro Engine analysis; if Semgrep identifies a finding as the result of Pro Engine analysis, or interfile and interprocedural analysis, it's included by this filter. |
| **Category**           | Filter by the type of security issue or vulnerability the rule detects, such as `security`, `correctness`, and `maintainability`. You can select more than one category at a time. See [Finding categories](#finding-categories) for information on how Semgrep categorizes your findings. |
| **Component**          | Filter by Semgrep Assistant component tags. Semgrep Assistant uses GPT-4 to categorize a finding based on its function, such as payments, user authentication, and infrastructure. |
| **Recommendation**     | Filter by recommendation offered by Semgrep Assistant's auto-triage feature. Possible values: <ul><li>Fix</li><li>Ignore</li></ul> |
| **Action**             | Filter by monitoring, commenting, or blocking rules in your Policies. |
| **Rule**               | Filter by rules included in your Policies page. You can select more than one rule or ruleset for filtering. |
| **Ruleset**            | Filter by the ruleset name where rules that match the code belong. More than one rule or ruleset can be selected for filtering. |

#### Finding categories

A finding can be categorized in two ways:

1. **Finding categorization based on the issue or code it detects**:
    - Anti-patterns
    - Security vulnerabilities (such as dangerous function usage)
    - Business or logic bugs
    - Matches based on your own custom rules (such as organization-specific authentication logic)

    Semgrep rules provide a metadata schema to identify these common categories. Semgrep findings include a `message` field that describes the security issue or bug found in matching code. Additionally, findings can provide a `fix` field that fixes the issue by creating a suggestion within your source code management (SCM) tool, such as GitHub, GitLab, and Bitbucket.
2. **Finding categorization based on the validity of the match**:
    <dl>
       <dt>True positive</dt>
       <dd>Rules are written to match a certain code pattern. A true positive is a genuine match. The rule is capturing the code as intended.</dd>
       <dt>False positive</dt>
       <dd>
        A false positive is a mismatch between the intended purpose of the rule and the code it matched. A finding is generated but does not meet the rule's intended need. Rules with a high false positivity rate are said to be <strong>noisy</strong>.
       </dd>
       <dt>False negative</dt>
       <dd>
        A false negative is a finding that should have been found by a rule, but was not. This can happen for two reasons:
        <ul>
            <li>A flaw in the rule's logic. See <a href="/docs/reporting-false-negatives">Reporting false negatives</a>.</li>
            <li>A bug within Semgrep itself. See the list of <a href="https://github.com/semgrep/semgrep/issues">Semgrep issues</a> to file a bug report.</li>
        </ul>
        </dd>
    </dl>

:::tip
You can identify findings categorized under **Security** by their badge.
![Screenshot of security badge](/img/findings-security-badge.png#md-width)
:::

### Display findings reported in a specific time frame

By default, the **Findings** page displays your results from all time. To display findings reported during a specific time frame, click the <i class="fa-solid fa-calendar-days"></i> **All time** button and select the preferred period. The following options are available:

  - All time
  - Last 1 year
  - Last 1 month
  - Last 7 days
  - Last 1 day

### View findings details about a specific finding

To view in-depth information about a specific finding:

1. Select the finding whose details you want to view details:
    - If the default **Group by Rule** is enabled, click the <i class="fa-regular fa-window-restore"></i> **Details** icon on the card of the finding.
        ![Click View details if Group by Rule is enabled](/img/cloud-platform-findings-group-by-rule-view-details.png#md-width)
    - If the **No grouping** view is enabled, click the **header hyperlink** on the card of the finding. In the example on the screenshot below, it is the **detected-generic-api-key**.
        ![Click View details if No grouping is enabled](/img/cloud-platform-findings-no-grouping-view-details.png#md-width)

#### Add notes to findings

To **add notes** to the activity history of a finding:

1. Select a finding where you want to view details or add notes, and then do one of the following actions:
    - If the default **Group by Rule** is enabled, click <i class="fa-regular fa-window-restore"></i> **Details** icon on the card of the finding.
        ![Click View details if Group by Rule is enabled](/img/cloud-platform-findings-group-by-rule-view-details.png#md-width)
    - If **No grouping** view is enabled, click the **header hyperlink** on the card of the finding. In the example on the screenshot below, it is the **detected-generic-api-key**.
        ![Click View details if No grouping is enabled](/img/cloud-platform-findings-no-grouping-view-details.png#md-width)
2. View, or add the notes in the **Activity** section. To add a new note, click plus **New note**.
    ![Semgrep AppSec Platform finding details page](/img/cloud-platform-finding-details.png#md-width)

## Dataflow traces

<DisplayTaintedDataIntro />

### View dataflow traces

<DisplayTaintedDataProcedure />

## Data retention

Semgrep, Inc. retains findings data as long as an account remains active. We securely destroy data within **90 days of contract termination** for our **Enterprise** customers.

Additionally, account owners may request data destruction at any time by contacting&nbsp;[<i class="fa-regular fa-envelope"></i>&nbsp;support@semgrep.com](mailto:support@semgrep.com).

## Further reading

- Learn how to [triage and remediate Semgrep Code findings](/semgrep-code/triage-remediation).
- See [Semgrep Assistant for Semgrep Code](/semgrep-assistant/overview) for information on receiving GPT-4-powered security recommendations when reviewing your findings.

Commit message:

Sara/tec 115 primary branches documentation (#1680)
* init primary branch

* move primary branch to deployment

* add procedure to set primary branch

* update screenshots

* minor update

* update findings page filter behavior

* correct link

* rename findings page and update semgrep secrets

* view all branches that contain the finding

* add endpoint, componentize, final ends

* Update docs/semgrep-secrets/view-triage.md

Co-authored-by: Katie Horne <katie.horne@semgrep.com>

* add a beta section and separate from ga

* fix spacing issue

* final tweaks

---------

Co-authored-by: Katie Horne <katie.horne@semgrep.com>

docs/semgrep-code/findings.md, after:

---
slug: findings
append_help_link: true
title: View findings
description: "The Code page allows users to view findings identified by Semgrep Code."
hide_title: true
toc_max_heading_level: 5
tags:
    - Semgrep Code
    - Semgrep AppSec Platform
---

import DisplayTaintedDataIntro from "/src/components/concept/_semgrep-code-display-tainted-data.mdx"
import DisplayTaintedDataProcedure from "/src/components/procedure/_semgrep-code-display-tainted-data.mdx"
import FindingsDefaultView from "/src/components/concept/_findings-default-view.mdx"

# View findings in Semgrep AppSec Platform

Semgrep Code generates a **finding** when a rule matches a piece of code in your codebase. You can use Semgrep AppSec Platform's [**Code** page](https://semgrep.dev/orgs/-/findings) to view all of the findings generated by Semgrep Code after it scans your codebase.

![Semgrep AppSec Platform Code page](/img/app-findings-overview.png#md-width)<br />

## Navigate to the Code page

To access the [**Code** page](https://semgrep.dev/orgs/-/findings):

1. Log in to [Semgrep AppSec Platform](https://semgrep.dev/login).
2. Click **[Code](https://semgrep.dev/orgs/-/findings)**.

## Code page structure

The **Code** page consists of:

- The **filter panel**, which you can use to group and filter for specific findings
- Information about findings identified by Semgrep Code. Each finding in the list includes:
  - The name and description of the rule used to generate the finding
  - The name of the project, as well as links to the Git branch and source code, where Semgrep Code identified the finding

### Group findings

By default, Semgrep groups all of the findings by the rule Semgrep used to match the code. This view is called the **Group by rule** view.

Semgrep sorts findings by severity. For a given severity, Semgrep further sorts findings as follows:

1. Findings generated by custom rules
2. Findings generated by [Pro rules](/semgrep-code/pro-rules)
3. Issue count in descending order
4. Findings ID in ascending order

![Findings grouped by rule](/img/app-findings.png#md-width)

To view findings individually, toggle **Group by Rule** to **No grouping** using the drop-down menu in the header. Findings are displayed based on the date they were found, with the most recent finding listed at the top.

![Group by Rule option](/img/cloud-platform-findings-no-grouping.png#md-width)

### Default Code page view

<!-- To be superseded after beta concludes -->

In Semgrep, a single finding may appear in several branches. These appearances are called **instances** of a finding. In the Code page, the latest instance, or the finding from the most recent branch scanned, is displayed by default.

#### For primary branch beta participants

<FindingsDefaultView product_name="Code" />

### Filter findings

Use filters to narrow down your results. The following criteria are available for filtering:

| Filter                 | Description  |
| ---------------------  | ------------ |
| **Projects**           | Filter by repositories connected to Semgrep AppSec Platform. |
| **Branches**           | Filter by findings in different Git branches. |
| **Teams**              | Filter for findings in projects to which the specified teams are associated with. Available only to organizations with RBAC enabled. |
| **Tags**               | Filter for findings based on the tags associated with the project. |
| **Status**             | Filter the triage state of a finding. Refer to [Triage statuses](/semgrep-code/triage-remediation#triage-statuses) to understand triage states. |
| **Severity**           | Filter by the severity of a finding. Severity is computed based on the values assigned for [Likelihood](/contributing/contributing-to-semgrep-rules-repository/#likelihood) and [Impact](/contributing/contributing-to-semgrep-rules-repository/#impact) by the rule's author. Possible values: <ul><li>Low</li><li>Medium</li><li>High</li></ul> |
| **Confidence**         | Filter by the likelihood of the rule to detect true positives. The higher the confidence, the more true positives the rule may detect. |
| **Pro findings**       | Filter for findings identified using Semgrep Pro rules. Also includes findings originating from Pro Engine analysis; if Semgrep identifies a finding as the result of Pro Engine analysis, or interfile and interprocedural analysis, it's included by this filter. |
| **Category**           | Filter by the type of security issue or vulnerability the rule detects, such as `security`, `correctness`, and `maintainability`. You can select more than one category at a time. See [Finding categories](#finding-categories) for information on how Semgrep categorizes your findings. |
| **Component**          | Filter by Semgrep Assistant component tags. Semgrep Assistant uses GPT-4 to categorize a finding based on its function, such as payments, user authentication, and infrastructure. |
| **Recommendation**     | Filter by recommendation offered by Semgrep Assistant's auto-triage feature. Possible values: <ul><li>Fix</li><li>Ignore</li></ul> |
| **Action**             | Filter by monitoring, commenting, or blocking rules in your Policies. |
| **Rule**               | Filter by rules included in your Policies page. You can select more than one rule or ruleset for filtering. |
| **Ruleset**            | Filter by the ruleset name where rules that match the code belong. More than one rule or ruleset can be selected for filtering. |

#### Finding categories

A finding can be categorized in two ways:

1. **Finding categorization based on the issue or code it detects**:
    - Anti-patterns
    - Security vulnerabilities (such as dangerous function usage)
    - Business or logic bugs
    - Matches based on your own custom rules (such as organization-specific authentication logic)

    Semgrep rules provide a metadata schema to identify these common categories. Semgrep findings include a `message` field that describes the security issue or bug found in matching code. Additionally, findings can provide a `fix` field that fixes the issue by creating a suggestion within your source code management (SCM) tool, such as GitHub, GitLab, and Bitbucket.
2. **Finding categorization based on the validity of the match**:
    <dl>
       <dt>True positive</dt>
       <dd>Rules are written to match a certain code pattern. A true positive is a genuine match. The rule is capturing the code as intended.</dd>
       <dt>False positive</dt>
       <dd>
        A false positive is a mismatch between the intended purpose of the rule and the code it matched. A finding is generated but does not meet the rule's intended need. Rules with a high false positivity rate are said to be <strong>noisy</strong>.
       </dd>
       <dt>False negative</dt>
       <dd>
        A false negative is a finding that should have been found by a rule, but was not. This can happen for two reasons:
        <ul>
            <li>A flaw in the rule's logic. See <a href="/docs/reporting-false-negatives">Reporting false negatives</a>.</li>
            <li>A bug within Semgrep itself. See the list of <a href="https://github.com/semgrep/semgrep/issues">Semgrep issues</a> to file a bug report.</li>
        </ul>
        </dd>
    </dl>

:::tip
You can identify findings categorized under **Security** by their badge.
![Screenshot of security badge](/img/findings-security-badge.png#md-width)
:::

### Display findings reported in a specific time frame

By default, the **Code** page displays your results from all time. To display findings reported during a specific time frame, click the <i class="fa-solid fa-calendar-days"></i> **All time** button and select the preferred period. The following options are available:

  - All time
  - Last 1 year
  - Last 1 month
  - Last 7 days
  - Last 1 day

### View findings details about a specific finding

To view in-depth information about a specific finding:

1. Select the finding whose details you want to view details:
    - If the default **Group by Rule** is enabled, click the <i class="fa-regular fa-window-restore"></i> **Details** icon on the card of the finding.
        ![Click View details if Group by Rule is enabled](/img/cloud-platform-findings-group-by-rule-view-details.png#md-width)
    - If the **No grouping** view is enabled, click the **header hyperlink** on the card of the finding. In the example on the screenshot below, it is the **detected-generic-api-key**.
        ![Click View details if No grouping is enabled](/img/cloud-platform-findings-no-grouping-view-details.png#md-width)
#### Add notes to findings

To **add notes** to the activity history of a finding:

1. Select a finding where you want to view details or add notes, and then do one of the following actions:
    - If the default **Group by Rule** is enabled, click <i class="fa-regular fa-window-restore"></i> **Details** icon on the card of the finding.
        ![Click View details if Group by Rule is enabled](/img/cloud-platform-findings-group-by-rule-view-details.png#md-width)
    - If **No grouping** view is enabled, click the **header hyperlink** on the card of the finding. In the example on the screenshot below, it is the **detected-generic-api-key**.
        ![Click View details if No grouping is enabled](/img/cloud-platform-findings-no-grouping-view-details.png#md-width)
2. View, or add the notes in the **Activity** section. To add a new note, click plus **New note**.
    ![Semgrep AppSec Platform finding details page](/img/cloud-platform-finding-details.png#md-width)
### View branches that contain the finding

To view all the branches that contain the finding, click the finding's **details page**. You can see all the branches on the **On <span className="placeholder">N</span> branches** pane.

![Details page > On N branches](/img/details-on-n-branches.png#sm-width-noborder)
_**Figure**. **Details page > On <span className="placeholder">N</span> branches** pane._

## Dataflow traces

<DisplayTaintedDataIntro />

### View dataflow traces

<DisplayTaintedDataProcedure />


## Data retention

Semgrep, Inc. retains findings data as long as an account remains active. We securely destroy data within **90 days of contract termination** for our **Enterprise** customers.

Additionally, account owners may request data destruction at any time by contacting&nbsp;[<i class="fa-regular fa-envelope"></i>&nbsp;support@semgrep.com](mailto:support@semgrep.com).

## Further reading

- Learn how to [triage and remediate Semgrep Code findings](/semgrep-code/triage-remediation).
- See [Semgrep Assistant for Semgrep Code](/semgrep-assistant/overview) for information on receiving GPT-4-powered security recommendations when reviewing your findings.
