docs/semgrep-code/semgrep-pro-engine-examples.md, before:

---
slug: semgrep-pro-engine-examples
append_help_link: true
description: "This document provides an overview of Semgrep Pro Engine language use cases."
toc_max_heading_level: 5
---

# Semgrep Pro Engine examples

This document provides an overview of Semgrep Pro Engine features through specific examples, such as its use in type inferences, class inheritance, constant propagation, and taint analysis. Several examples provide a comparison between the results of Semgrep Pro Engine and Semgrep OSS Engine.

## Tips and tricks for an interactive experience

The following resources can help you to test the code in the sections below. As you work through the examples in this document, try the following:

- Enable the <i class="fa-solid fa-toggle-large-on"></i> **Semgrep Pro Engine beta** toggle within the [Playground](https://semgrep.dev/playground/new).
    - Rules you use in Semgrep Pro Engine require `interfile: true` key included in the `metadata` key. See the following [example](https://semgrep.dev/s/3NZb).
- The [Semgrep Pro Engine testing repository](https://github.com/returntocorp/semgrep-pro-tests) 
    - Clone the repository:
        ```sh
        git clone https://github.com/returntocorp/semgrep-pro-tests
        ```
    - Follow the instructions in the sections of this document below. Generally:
        - To run Semgrep Pro Engine with interfile analysis, run:
            ```sh
            semgrep --pro --config=pro.yaml .
            ```
        - To run Semgrep Pro Engine with interprocedural analysis, run:
            ```sh
            semgrep --pro-intrafile --config=pro.yaml .
            ```

## Taint tracking

Semgrep OSS allows you to search for the flow of any potentially exploitable input into an important sink using taint mode. For more information, see the [taint mode](/writing-rules/data-flow/taint-mode/) documentation.

In the examples below, see a comparison of Semgrep OSS and Semgrep Pro Engine while searching for dangerous calls using data obtained `get_user_input` call. The rule does this by specifying the source of taint as `get_user_input(...)` and the sink as `dangerous(...);`.

### Java

Semgrep matches `dangerous(“Select * from “ + user_input)`, because `user_input` is obtained by calling `get_user_input`. However, it does not match the similar call using `still_user_input`, because its analysis does not cross function boundaries to know that `still_user_input` is a wrapper function for `user_input`.

<iframe title="Semgrep example no prints" src="https://semgrep.dev/embed/editor?snippet=xOlj" width="100%" height="432" frameborder="0"></iframe>

Semgrep Pro Engine matches both dangerous calls because it does cross function boundaries. In fact, with Semgrep Pro Engine, the taint rule can track calls to `get_user_input` over multiple jumps in multiple files.

:::tip Try it out
Enable the **Semgrep Pro Engine beta** <i class="fa-solid fa-toggle-large-on"></i> toggle in the following link to an [example of dangerous taint](https://semgrep.dev/playground/s/J0dQ). To run Semgrep Pro Engine in the cloned [Semgrep Pro Engine testing repository](https://github.com/returntocorp/semgrep-pro-tests). Go to `docs/taint_tracking/java` and run the following command:

```sh
semgrep --config pro.yaml . --pro
```
:::

### JavaScript and TypeScript

Here, Semgrep OSS matches `dangerous(“Select * from “ + user_input)`, because `user_input` is obtained by calling `get_user_input`. However, Semgrep OSS does not match the similar call using `still_user_input`, because its analysis does not cross function boundaries to know that `still_user_input` is a wrapper function for `user_input`.

<iframe title="Semgrep example no prints" src="https://semgrep.dev/embed/editor?snippet=kO41" width="100%" height="432" frameborder="0"></iframe>

Semgrep Pro matches both dangerous calls because it does cross function boundaries. In fact, with Semgrep Pro, the taint rule can track calls to `get_user_input` over multiple jumps in multiple files.

:::tip Try it out
Enable the **Semgrep Pro Engine beta** <i class="fa-solid fa-toggle-large-on"></i> toggle in the following link to an [example of dangerous taint](https://semgrep.dev/s/Po9p). To run Semgrep Pro Engine in the cloned [Semgrep Pro Engine testing repository](https://github.com/returntocorp/semgrep-pro-tests). Go to `docs/taint_tracking/javascript` and run the following command:

```sh
semgrep --config pro.yaml . --pro
```
:::

#### ES6 and CommonJS

The JavaScript and TypeScript ecosystems contain various ways for importing and exporting code, Semgrep Pro Engine can track dataflow through ES6 imports or exports and some CommonJS export paths (See [Known limitations of Semgrep Pro Engine](/supported-languages/#known-limitations-of-semgrep-pro-engine).

##### ES6

Semgrep Pro Engine can track data through the definition of exports for es6:

```js
export function readUser() {
    return get_user_input("example")
}
```

Semgrep Pro Engine can follow the dataflow when it is imported into another location:

```js
import { readUser } from "./es6/es6";

readUser()
```

##### CommonJS

Semgrep Pro Engine can track data through the definition of exports for CommonJS when the function is defined inline:

```js
module.exports = function get_user() {
    return get_user_input("example")
}
```
Semgrep is able to follow the dataflow when it is required in another location:

```js
const readUser = require("./commonjs/common")
readUser()
```

:::tip Try it out
To run Semgrep Pro in the cloned [Semgrep Pro Engine testing repository](https://github.com/returntocorp/semgrep-pro-tests). Go to `docs/taint_tracking/imports` and run the following command:

```sh
semgrep --config pro.yaml . --pro
```
:::

## Type inference and class inheritance

### Class inheritance

This section compares the possible findings of a scan across multiple files using Semgrep OSS and Semgrep Pro. The file `app.java` includes two check functions that throw exceptions. This example looks for methods that throw a particular exception, `ExampleException`.

<iframe title="Semgrep example no prints"src="https://semgrep.dev/embed/editor?snippet=yOYk" width="100%" height="432" frameborder="0"></iframe>

When using this rule, Semgrep OSS matches code that throws `ExampleException` but not `BadRequest`. Check other files in the `docs/class_inheritance` directory. In the context of all files, you can find that this match does **not** capture the whole picture. The `BadRequest` extends `ExampleException`:

File `example_exception.java`:

```java
package example;

public class ExampleException extends Exception {

    public ExampleException(String exception) {
        super(exception);
    }
}
```

File `bad_request.java`:
```java
package example; 

class BadRequest extends ExampleException {
  public BadRequest(String exception) {
    super(exception);
  }
}
```

Where `ExampleException` is thrown, we also want to find `BadRequest`, because `BadRequest` is a child of `ExampleException`. Unlike Semgrep OSS, Semgrep Pro Engine can find `BadRequest`. Since Semgrep Pro Engine uses information from all the files in the directory it scans, it detects `BadRequest` and finds both thrown exceptions.

:::tip Try it out
If you are following in the cloned [Semgrep Pro Engine testing repository](https://github.com/returntocorp/semgrep-pro-tests), in the `docs/class_inheritance` directory, try the following commands to test the difference:

1. Run Semgrep OSS:
    ```sh
    semgrep --config pro.yaml .
    ```
2. Run Semgrep Pro Engine:
    ```sh
    semgrep --config pro.yaml . --pro 
    ```
:::

### Using class inheritance with typed metavariables

Semgrep Pro Engine uses interfile class inheritance information when matching [typed metavariables](/writing-rules/pattern-syntax/#typed-metavariables). Continuing the example from the previous section, see the following example file, which has defined some exceptions and includes their logging:

<iframe title="Semgrep example no prints" src="https://semgrep.dev/embed/editor?snippet=14bk" width="100%" height="432" frameborder="0"></iframe>

The rule searches for any variable of type `ExampleException` being logged. Semgrep is **not** able to find instances of `BadRequest` being logged, unlike Semgrep Pro Engine. Allowing typed metavariables to access information from the entire program enables users to query any variable for its type and use that information in conjunction with the rest of the code resulting in more accurate findings.

:::note
For a more realistic example where typed metavariables are used, see the following [rule written by the Semgrep community](https://semgrep.dev/playground/s/o9l6) to find code vulnerable to the log4j vulnerability.
:::

:::tip Try it out
Run Semgrep Pro Engine in the cloned [Semgrep Pro Engine testing repository](https://github.com/returntocorp/semgrep-pro-tests). Go to `docs/class_inheritance_with_typed_metavariables` and run the following command:

```sh
semgrep --config pro.yaml . --pro
```
:::

## Constant propagation

### Finding dangerous calls

[Constant propagation](/writing-rules/pattern-syntax/#constants) provides a syntax for eliminating false positives in Semgrep rules. Even if a variable is set to a constant before being used in a function call several lines below, Semgrep knows that it must have that value and matches the function call. For example, this rule looks for non-constant values passed to the `dangerous` function:

#### Java

<iframe title="Semgrep example no prints" src="https://semgrep.dev/embed/editor?snippet=XK9N" width="100%" height="432" frameborder="0"></iframe>

Semgrep OSS matches the first and second calls as it cannot find a constant value for either `user_input` or `EMPLOYEE_TABLE_NAME`.

Now consider an example a bit more complicated to illustrate what Semgrep Pro Engine can do. If the `EMPLOYEE_TABLE_NAME` is imported from a global constants file with the following content:

Global constants file:
```java
package com.main;

public final class Constants {
    public static final double PI = 3.14159;
    public static final double PLANCK_CONSTANT = 6.62606896e-34;
    public static final String EMPLOYEE_TABLE_NAME = "Employees";
}
```

Semgrep Pro Engine matches the first call without any change to the rule.

:::tip Try it out
Run Semgrep Pro Engine in the cloned [Semgrep Pro Engine testing repository](https://github.com/returntocorp/semgrep-pro-tests). Go to `docs/constant_propagation_dangerous_calls` and run the following command:

```sh
semgrep --config pro.yaml . --pro
```
:::

#### JavaScript and TypeScript

<iframe title="Semgrep example no prints" src="https://semgrep.dev/embed/editor?snippet=odGx" width="100%" height="432" frameborder="0"></iframe>

Semgrep matches the first and second calls because Semgrep cannot find a constant value for either `user_input` or `EMPLOYEE_TABLE_NAME`.

Now consider an example a bit more complicated to illustrate what Semgrep Pro Engine can do. If the `EMPLOYEE_TABLE_NAME` is imported from a global constants file with the following content:

Global constants file:
```js
export const PI = 3.14159;
export const PLANCK_CONSTANT = 6.62606896e-34;
export const EMPLOYEE_TABLE_NAME = "Employees";
```

Semgrep Pro Engine matches the first call without any change to the rule.

:::tip Try it out
Run Semgrep Pro Engine in the cloned [Semgrep Pro Engine testing repository](https://github.com/returntocorp/semgrep-pro-tests). Go to `docs/constant_propagation_dangerous_calls` and run the following command:

```sh
semgrep --config pro.yaml . --pro
```
:::

### Propagating values

In the previous example, we only cared whether the string was constant or not, so we used `”...”`, but constant propagation also propagates the constant value. To illustrate the use of Semgrep Pro Engine with constant propagation, the rule from the previous section is changed to search for calls to `dangerous("Employees");`.

#### Java

<iframe title="Semgrep example no prints" src="https://semgrep.dev/embed/editor?snippet=YqyD" width="100%" height="432" frameborder="0"></iframe>

With Semgrep Pro Engine, this rule matches the last three calls to `dangerous`, since these calls are selected from the `Employees` table, though each one obtains the table name differently:

:::tip Try it out
Run Semgrep Pro Engine in the cloned [Semgrep Pro Engine testing repository](https://github.com/returntocorp/semgrep-pro-tests). Go to `docs/constant_propagation_propagating_values` and run the following command:

```sh
semgrep --config pro.yaml . --pro
```
:::

#### JavaScript and TypeScript

<iframe title="Semgrep example no prints" src="https://semgrep.dev/embed/editor?snippet=pORk" width="100%" height="432" frameborder="0"></iframe>

With Semgrep Pro Engine, this rule matches the last three calls to `dangerous`, since these calls are selected from the `Employees` table, though each one obtains the table name differently:

:::tip Try it out
Run Semgrep Pro Engine in the cloned [Semgrep Pro Engine testing repository](https://github.com/returntocorp/semgrep-pro-tests). Go to `docs/constant_propagation_propagating_values` and run the following command:

```sh
semgrep --config pro.yaml . --pro
```
:::

Commit message:

Update Pro Engine toggle (#1080)
* Update Pro Engine toggle - Editor, Playground, Settings configuration of Pro Engine update

* Remove supported languages mentioned on Settings page

* Fix supported languages (GA to Beta in Pro Engine section)

* Update docs/semgrep-code/semgrep-pro-engine-intro.md

docs/semgrep-code/semgrep-pro-engine-examples.md, after:

---
slug: semgrep-pro-engine-examples
append_help_link: true
description: "This document provides an overview of Semgrep Pro Engine language use cases."
toc_max_heading_level: 5
---

# Semgrep Pro Engine examples

This document provides an overview of Semgrep Pro Engine features through specific examples, such as its use in type inferences, class inheritance, constant propagation, and taint analysis. Several examples provide a comparison between the results of Semgrep Pro Engine and Semgrep OSS Engine.

## Tips and tricks for an interactive experience

The following resources can help you to test the code in the sections below. As you work through the examples in this document, try the following:

- Ensure that the <i class="fa-solid fa-toggle-large-on"></i> **Pro Engine beta** toggle is enabled on the [Playground](https://semgrep.dev/playground/new) page.
    - Rules you use in Semgrep Pro Engine require `interfile: true` key included in the `metadata` key. See the following [example](https://semgrep.dev/s/3NZb).
- The [Semgrep Pro Engine testing repository](https://github.com/returntocorp/semgrep-pro-tests) 
    - Clone the repository:
        ```sh
        git clone https://github.com/returntocorp/semgrep-pro-tests
        ```
    - Follow the instructions in the sections of this document below. Generally:
        - To run Semgrep Pro Engine with interfile analysis, run:
            ```sh
            semgrep --pro --config=pro.yaml .
            ```
        - To run Semgrep Pro Engine with interprocedural analysis, run:
            ```sh
            semgrep --pro-intrafile --config=pro.yaml .
            ```

## Taint tracking

Semgrep OSS allows you to search for the flow of any potentially exploitable input into an important sink using taint mode. For more information, see the [taint mode](/writing-rules/data-flow/taint-mode/) documentation.

In the examples below, see a comparison of Semgrep OSS and Semgrep Pro Engine while searching for dangerous calls using data obtained `get_user_input` call. The rule does this by specifying the source of taint as `get_user_input(...)` and the sink as `dangerous(...);`.

### Java

Semgrep matches `dangerous(“Select * from “ + user_input)`, because `user_input` is obtained by calling `get_user_input`. However, it does not match the similar call using `still_user_input`, because its analysis does not cross function boundaries to know that `still_user_input` is a wrapper function for `user_input`.

<iframe title="Semgrep example no prints" src="https://semgrep.dev/embed/editor?snippet=xOlj" width="100%" height="432" frameborder="0"></iframe>

Semgrep Pro Engine matches both dangerous calls because it does cross function boundaries. In fact, with Semgrep Pro Engine, the taint rule can track calls to `get_user_input` over multiple jumps in multiple files.

:::tip Try it out
Ensure that the **Pro Engine beta** <i class="fa-solid fa-toggle-large-on"></i> toggle is enabled in the following link to an [example of dangerous taint](https://semgrep.dev/playground/s/J0dQ) rule. To run Semgrep Pro Engine in the cloned [Semgrep Pro Engine testing repository](https://github.com/returntocorp/semgrep-pro-tests). Go to `docs/taint_tracking/java` and run the following command:

```sh
semgrep --config pro.yaml . --pro
```
:::

### JavaScript and TypeScript

Here, Semgrep OSS matches `dangerous(“Select * from “ + user_input)`, because `user_input` is obtained by calling `get_user_input`. However, Semgrep OSS does not match the similar call using `still_user_input`, because its analysis does not cross function boundaries to know that `still_user_input` is a wrapper function for `user_input`.

<iframe title="Semgrep example no prints" src="https://semgrep.dev/embed/editor?snippet=kO41" width="100%" height="432" frameborder="0"></iframe>

Semgrep Pro matches both dangerous calls because it does cross function boundaries. In fact, with Semgrep Pro, the taint rule can track calls to `get_user_input` over multiple jumps in multiple files.

:::tip Try it out
Enable the **Semgrep Pro Engine beta** <i class="fa-solid fa-toggle-large-on"></i> toggle in the following link to an [example of dangerous taint](https://semgrep.dev/s/Po9p). To run Semgrep Pro Engine in the cloned [Semgrep Pro Engine testing repository](https://github.com/returntocorp/semgrep-pro-tests). Go to `docs/taint_tracking/javascript` and run the following command:

```sh
semgrep --config pro.yaml . --pro
```
:::

#### ES6 and CommonJS

The JavaScript and TypeScript ecosystems contain various ways for importing and exporting code, Semgrep Pro Engine can track dataflow through ES6 imports or exports and some CommonJS export paths (See [Known limitations of Semgrep Pro Engine](/supported-languages/#known-limitations-of-semgrep-pro-engine).

##### ES6

Semgrep Pro Engine can track data through the definition of exports for es6:

```js
export function readUser() {
    return get_user_input("example")
}
```

Semgrep Pro Engine can follow the dataflow when it is imported into another location:

```js
import { readUser } from "./es6/es6";

readUser()
```

##### CommonJS

Semgrep Pro Engine can track data through the definition of exports for CommonJS when the function is defined inline:

```js
module.exports = function get_user() {
    return get_user_input("example")
}
```
Semgrep is able to follow the dataflow when it is required in another location:

```js
const readUser = require("./commonjs/common")
readUser()
```

:::tip Try it out
To run Semgrep Pro in the cloned [Semgrep Pro Engine testing repository](https://github.com/returntocorp/semgrep-pro-tests). Go to `docs/taint_tracking/imports` and run the following command:

```sh
semgrep --config pro.yaml . --pro
```
:::

## Type inference and class inheritance

### Class inheritance

This section compares the possible findings of a scan across multiple files using Semgrep OSS and Semgrep Pro. The file `app.java` includes two check functions that throw exceptions. This example looks for methods that throw a particular exception, `ExampleException`.

<iframe title="Semgrep example no prints"src="https://semgrep.dev/embed/editor?snippet=yOYk" width="100%" height="432" frameborder="0"></iframe>

When using this rule, Semgrep OSS matches code that throws `ExampleException` but not `BadRequest`. Check other files in the `docs/class_inheritance` directory. In the context of all files, you can find that this match does **not** capture the whole picture. The `BadRequest` extends `ExampleException`:

File `example_exception.java`:

```java
package example;

public class ExampleException extends Exception {

    public ExampleException(String exception) {
        super(exception);
    }
}
```

File `bad_request.java`:
```java
package example; 

class BadRequest extends ExampleException {
  public BadRequest(String exception) {
    super(exception);
  }
}
```

Where `ExampleException` is thrown, we also want to find `BadRequest`, because `BadRequest` is a child of `ExampleException`. Unlike Semgrep OSS, Semgrep Pro Engine can find `BadRequest`. Since Semgrep Pro Engine uses information from all the files in the directory it scans, it detects `BadRequest` and finds both thrown exceptions.

:::tip Try it out
If you are following in the cloned [Semgrep Pro Engine testing repository](https://github.com/returntocorp/semgrep-pro-tests), in the `docs/class_inheritance` directory, try the following commands to test the difference:

1. Run Semgrep OSS:
    ```sh
    semgrep --config pro.yaml .
    ```
2. Run Semgrep Pro Engine:
    ```sh
    semgrep --config pro.yaml . --pro 
    ```
:::

### Using class inheritance with typed metavariables

Semgrep Pro Engine uses interfile class inheritance information when matching [typed metavariables](/writing-rules/pattern-syntax/#typed-metavariables). Continuing the example from the previous section, see the following example file, which has defined some exceptions and includes their logging:

<iframe title="Semgrep example no prints" src="https://semgrep.dev/embed/editor?snippet=14bk" width="100%" height="432" frameborder="0"></iframe>

The rule searches for any variable of type `ExampleException` being logged. Semgrep is **not** able to find instances of `BadRequest` being logged, unlike Semgrep Pro Engine. Allowing typed metavariables to access information from the entire program enables users to query any variable for its type and use that information in conjunction with the rest of the code resulting in more accurate findings.

:::note
For a more realistic example where typed metavariables are used, see the following [rule written by the Semgrep community](https://semgrep.dev/playground/s/o9l6) to find code vulnerable to the log4j vulnerability.
:::

:::tip Try it out
Run Semgrep Pro Engine in the cloned [Semgrep Pro Engine testing repository](https://github.com/returntocorp/semgrep-pro-tests). Go to `docs/class_inheritance_with_typed_metavariables` and run the following command:

```sh
semgrep --config pro.yaml . --pro
```
:::

## Constant propagation

### Finding dangerous calls

[Constant propagation](/writing-rules/pattern-syntax/#constants) provides a syntax for eliminating false positives in Semgrep rules. Even if a variable is set to a constant before being used in a function call several lines below, Semgrep knows that it must have that value and matches the function call. For example, this rule looks for non-constant values passed to the `dangerous` function:

#### Java

<iframe title="Semgrep example no prints" src="https://semgrep.dev/embed/editor?snippet=XK9N" width="100%" height="432" frameborder="0"></iframe>

Semgrep OSS matches the first and second calls as it cannot find a constant value for either `user_input` or `EMPLOYEE_TABLE_NAME`.

Now consider an example a bit more complicated to illustrate what Semgrep Pro Engine can do. If the `EMPLOYEE_TABLE_NAME` is imported from a global constants file with the following content:

Global constants file:
```java
package com.main;

public final class Constants {
    public static final double PI = 3.14159;
    public static final double PLANCK_CONSTANT = 6.62606896e-34;
    public static final String EMPLOYEE_TABLE_NAME = "Employees";
}
```

Semgrep Pro Engine matches the first call without any change to the rule.

:::tip Try it out
Run Semgrep Pro Engine in the cloned [Semgrep Pro Engine testing repository](https://github.com/returntocorp/semgrep-pro-tests). Go to `docs/constant_propagation_dangerous_calls` and run the following command:

```sh
semgrep --config pro.yaml . --pro
```
:::

#### JavaScript and TypeScript

<iframe title="Semgrep example no prints" src="https://semgrep.dev/embed/editor?snippet=odGx" width="100%" height="432" frameborder="0"></iframe>

Semgrep matches the first and second calls because Semgrep cannot find a constant value for either `user_input` or `EMPLOYEE_TABLE_NAME`.

Now consider an example a bit more complicated to illustrate what Semgrep Pro Engine can do. If the `EMPLOYEE_TABLE_NAME` is imported from a global constants file with the following content:

Global constants file:
```js
export const PI = 3.14159;
export const PLANCK_CONSTANT = 6.62606896e-34;
export const EMPLOYEE_TABLE_NAME = "Employees";
```

Semgrep Pro Engine matches the first call without any change to the rule.

:::tip Try it out
Run Semgrep Pro Engine in the cloned [Semgrep Pro Engine testing repository](https://github.com/returntocorp/semgrep-pro-tests). Go to `docs/constant_propagation_dangerous_calls` and run the following command:

```sh
semgrep --config pro.yaml . --pro
```
:::

### Propagating values

In the previous example, we only cared whether the string was constant or not, so we used `”...”`, but constant propagation also propagates the constant value. To illustrate the use of Semgrep Pro Engine with constant propagation, the rule from the previous section is changed to search for calls to `dangerous("Employees");`.

#### Java

<iframe title="Semgrep example no prints" src="https://semgrep.dev/embed/editor?snippet=YqyD" width="100%" height="432" frameborder="0"></iframe>

With Semgrep Pro Engine, this rule matches the last three calls to `dangerous`, since these calls are selected from the `Employees` table, though each one obtains the table name differently:

:::tip Try it out
Run Semgrep Pro Engine in the cloned [Semgrep Pro Engine testing repository](https://github.com/returntocorp/semgrep-pro-tests). Go to `docs/constant_propagation_propagating_values` and run the following command:

```sh
semgrep --config pro.yaml . --pro
```
:::

#### JavaScript and TypeScript

<iframe title="Semgrep example no prints" src="https://semgrep.dev/embed/editor?snippet=pORk" width="100%" height="432" frameborder="0"></iframe>

With Semgrep Pro Engine, this rule matches the last three calls to `dangerous`, since these calls are selected from the `Employees` table, though each one obtains the table name differently:

:::tip Try it out
Run Semgrep Pro Engine in the cloned [Semgrep Pro Engine testing repository](https://github.com/returntocorp/semgrep-pro-tests). Go to `docs/constant_propagation_propagating_values` and run the following command:

```sh
semgrep --config pro.yaml . --pro
```
:::
