docs/semgrep-code/semgrep-assistant-code.md, before:

---
slug: semgrep-assistant-code
append_help_link: true
title: GPT-assisted triage and autofix
hide_title: true
description: Enable Semgrep Assistant (beta) in your PR comments to provide tips for triage and remediation of Semgrep findings. 
tags:
  - Semgrep Code
---

import MoreHelp from "/src/components/MoreHelp"
import Tabs from '@theme/Tabs';
import TabItem from '@theme/TabItem';

# Semgrep Assistant for Semgrep Code

Receive GPT-4-powered security recommendations designed to reduce the time spent when reviewing Semgrep Code findings. Semgrep Assistant can leave comments in pull requests (PRs) and Slack notifications. These comments provide recommendations for triage and code remediation, such as assessing if a finding is a true or false positive.

![Screenshot of Semgrep Assistant message in GitHub](/img/semgrep-assistant-github.png)
*Figure*. Semgrep Assistant detecting a false positive.

This document provides an overview of the following:

* Feature availability, support, and maturity
* Privacy and legal aspects
* How to enable Semgrep Assistant
* How to receive notifications or comments from Semgrep Assistant

:::info Feature maturity 
* This feature is in **public beta**.
* You or your developers may encounter rough edges. This includes inaccurate recommendations or broken text. Please leave feedback on the PR comments from Semgrep Assistant to help the Semgrep team improve Semgrep Assistant.
::: 

## Feature support and availability

### Source code management

* This feature is available to users of the following source code managers (SCMs):
    * GitHub Cloud
    * All GitLab plans, both SaaS and self-managed
* Semgrep Assistant does not support GitHub Enterprise Server (self-hosted).

### Semgrep products

* Semgrep Assistant is available for any Semgrep Cloud Platform user. This includes users who are using Semgrep Cloud Platform for **free**.
* Semgrep Assistant is not available on Semgrep CLI.
* Semgrep Assistant works exclusively on Semgrep Code findings.

### Language support

Semgrep Assistant supports all the same languages as Semgrep Code. See [Supported languages](/supported-languages) for more information.

## Privacy and legal considerations

Semgrep gets API permissions to access code on your pre-selected GitHub or GitLab repositories.

* Semgrep Assistant logs and stores the GPT prompts and responses for the sake of performance evaluation, which include source code snippets.
* Semgrep Assistant sends relevant lines of code to OpenAI's API, where currently, the "relevant lines of code" means lines that are part of the Semgrep finding, plus 10 lines of context on each side. Semgrep, Inc. is likely to expand this, potentially to the entire file, as we learn how to pass more useful context.
* Semgrep stores and retains GPT's responses based on these code snippets for up to 6 months. Semgrep, Inc. will update you with at least a 30-day notice if we make any changes to the retention policy.
* Semgrep, Inc. is a paying customer of OpenAI and has a Data Protection Agreement signed with them (provided upon request by [contacting support](/docs/support). The code snippets we upload are persisted by OpenAI temporarily, following their data usage policies at [Open AI API data Usage Policies](https://openai.com/policies/api-data-usage-policies).
* Semgrep, Inc. takes the following steps to protect data that is processed by AI since Assistant requires the sharing of code snippets with a third party:
  * Semgrep shares code snippets with OpenAI without identifying the customer or repository name.
  * Semgrep only shares the code necessary to enlist the help of GPT in automating the resolution of each specific alert.
  * Semgrep only accesses source code repositories on a file-by-file basis; it does not need or request org-level access to your codebase.
* When using Semgrep Assistant, source code **does** leave your repository; Assistant submits part of the file with a finding to OpenAI for processing by a GPT model. OpenAI is not allowed to use the submitted code for training their models.
* Regarding your data privacy, none of your personal information is shared with OpenAI as a part of the Semgrep Assistant feature.
* Semgrep, Inc. and OpenAI do not obtain any rights to your source code. Your source code remains yours, and Semgrep or OpenAI accesses it to the limited extent necessary to provide the Semgrep Assistant service. Once the results are returned to you, Semgrep Assistant deletes the shared snippets. OpenAI retains copies of the content sent to them for a maximum of 30 days to monitor for abuse, as indicated in their API Data Usage Policies.
* Because Semgrep Assistant accesses OpenAI’s services through the API, OpenAI does not use any of the code provided to them to improve their services (see Section 3(c) of their Terms of Use).
* To a limited extent, using Semgrep Assistant changes the terms of your agreement with Semgrep, Inc. Specifically, sharing code snippets with Semgrep Assistant as part of this feature expands the scope of the data to which you grant Semgrep, Inc. a limited license to provide services to you (see Section 5.1 of our Subscriber Agreement).

For more details, see the [Semgrep Assistant FAQ](https://get.semgrep.dev/assistant).

## Required GitHub or GitLab repository permissions

Semgrep Assistant requires the same permissions that Semgrep needs to integrate with GitHub or GitLab, such as permissions that allow Semgrep to run CI jobs and post comments to PRs or MRs. See [<i class="fa-regular fa-file-lines"></i> Requested permissions for GitHub and GitLab](/deployment/checklist/#permissions) for a list of permissions.

Assistant extends normal Semgrep capabilities by providing contextually aware AI-generated suggestions. In order to build that context, it requires extra permissions in GitHub and GitLab.

<Tabs
    defaultValue="github"
    values={[
    {label: 'GitHub', value: 'github'},
    {label: 'GitLab', value: 'gitlab'},
    ]}
>

<TabItem value='github'>

Semgrep Assistant requires [read access to your code in GitHub](https://docs.github.com/en/rest/overview/permissions-required-for-github-apps?apiVersion=2022-11-28). This is done through a private Semgrep GitHub app that you install during Assistant setup. This private Semgrep GitHub app:

* Is fully under your control so you can revoke access or specific permissions at any time by visiting **Settings > Applications** in GitHub.
* Only accesses source code repositories on a file-by-file basis; it does not need or request org-level access to your codebase.
* Can be configured to limit its scope to specific repositories. You do not need to give read access to all repositories in your GitHub organization. 

</TabItem>

<TabItem value='gitlab'>

Semgrep Assistant requires the **API scope** to run in both GitLab SaaS and GitLab self-managed instances. This can be specified at either the [project access token level](https://docs.gitlab.com/ee/user/project/settings/project_access_tokens.html) or [personal access token level](https://docs.gitlab.com/ee/user/profile/personal_access_tokens.html). 

* You can revoke [project access tokens](https://docs.gitlab.com/ee/user/project/settings/project_access_tokens.html#revoke-a-project-access-token) or [personal access tokens](https://docs.gitlab.com/ee/user/profile/personal_access_tokens.html#revoke-a-personal-access-token) at any time. 
* Semgrep Assistant only accesses source code repositories (projects) on a file-by-file basis; it does not need or request org-level access to your codebase.
* The token can be configured to limit its scope to specific projects or individuals. You do not need to give read access to all projects in your GitLab organization.

</TabItem>
</Tabs>

## Enable Semgrep Assistant

<Tabs
    defaultValue="github"
    values={[
    {label: 'GitHub', value: 'github'},
    {label: 'GitLab', value: 'gitlab'},
    ]}
>

<TabItem value='github'>

:::info Prerequisites
* You have completed a [Semgrep core deployment](/deployment/core-deployment).
* You have set rules to **Comment** or **Block** mode in your [<i class="fas fa-external-link fa-sm"></i> Policies page](https://semgrep.dev/orgs/-/policies).
:::

1. Sign in to [Semgrep Cloud Platform](https://semgrep.dev/login).
2. Click **[<i class="fa-solid fa-gear"></i> Settings](https://semgrep.dev/orgs/-/settings/)**. 
3. In the **Products** section, on the **Assistant** entry, click **Set up**.
![Screenshot of Semgrep Assistant setup button](/img/semgrep-assistant-setup.png#md-width)
4. Approve the Semgrep Assistant terms of service.
5. Provide the GitHub namespace to install Semgrep Assistant to. This is usually your account or organization name.
6. You are redirected to the Semgrep Assistant installation page. The steps are as follows:
    1. You must create a private `semgrep-app` in GitHub if you do not have one already. Click **Create app** under step 3 to do this.
    2. You are redirected to GitHub. Follow the instructions to create a private `semgrep-app`.
    3. You are redirected back to Semgrep Cloud Platform. Click **Install**.
7. You are redirected to the **Settings** page. In the **Code** section, Click **Auto-triage with Semgrep Assistant** <i class="fa-solid fa-toggle-large-on"></i>.
    ![Screenshot of Semgrep Assistant toggle location](/img/semgrep-assistant-enable.png)
8. Click <i class="fa-solid fa-square-check"></i> **PR/MR Comments** to receive comments.
9. Click <i class="fa-solid fa-square-check"></i> **Slack notifications** to receive Slack notifications.

Semgrep Assistant is now enabled and appears in future PRs. 
</TabItem>

<TabItem value='gitlab'>

:::info Prerequisites
* You have completed a [Semgrep core deployment](/deployment/core-deployment).
* You have set rules to **Comment** or **Block** mode in your [<i class="fas fa-external-link fa-sm"></i> Policies page](https://semgrep.dev/orgs/-/policies).
:::

1. Sign in to [Semgrep Cloud Platform <i class="fas fa-external-link fa-xs"></i>](https://semgrep.dev/login) using your GitLab account.
2. Click **[<i class="fa-solid fa-gear"></i> Settings](https://semgrep.dev/orgs/-/settings/)**. 
3. In the **Products** section, on the **Assistant** entry, click the **toggle <i class="fa-solid fa-toggle-large-on"></i>**.
![Screenshot of Semgrep Assistant setup button](/img/semgrep-assistant-gl-setup.png#md-width)
4. Click **Accept & enable Assistant** to accept the Semgrep Assistant terms of service.
5. In the **Code** section, Click **Auto-triage with Semgrep Assistant** <i class="fa-solid fa-toggle-large-on"></i>.
    ![Screenshot of Semgrep Assistant toggle location](/img/semgrep-assistant-enable.png)
8. Click <i class="fa-solid fa-square-check"></i> **PR/MR Comments** to receive comments.
9. Click <i class="fa-solid fa-square-check"></i> **Slack notifications** to receive Slack notifications.

You have successfully enabled Semgrep Assistant for cloud-hosted GitLab plans.
![MR comment from Semgrep Assistant in GitLab](/img/assistant-gl-comment.png#md-width)
*Figure*. MR comment from Semgrep Assistant in GitLab.

</TabItem>
</Tabs>

![Screenshot of Semgrep Assistant in a Slack notification](/img/semgrep-assistant-slack.png)
*Figure*. Semgrep Assistant in a Slack notification.

To further customize Semgrep Assistant, see:

* [Suggesting autofix code snippets to resolve the finding](#suggest-autofix-code-snippets-to-resolve-the-finding)

:::caution Not receiving PR comments?
Semgrep Assistant messages only appear in your PR comments for rules that are set to Comment or Block mode in the Rule Management page. Ensure the following:

* Ensure that you have set rules to Comment or Block mode.
    ![Screenshot of Policies modes](/img/semgrep-assistant-comment.png)
* Ensure that you have selected PR/MR comments in **Semgrep Cloud Platform > Settings > Deployment** in the **Code** section.
:::

## Types of recommendations from Semgrep Assistant

The following are recommendations users can receive from Semgrep Assistant.

### Analyze if a finding is a true or false positive

Semgrep Assistant can analyze if your finding is a true or false positive. The accuracy of its recommendations is roughly 60% and varies based on the language and framework you are using. This is its default use case. This feature is active in both PR and MR comments and Slack notifications.

### Suggest autofix code snippets to resolve the finding

Semgrep Assistant can suggest [autofix](/writing-rules/autofix/) code snippets for Semgrep rules which do not have human-written autofix suggestions. This feature is only active in PR and MR comments.

To enable autofix by Semgrep Assistant, perform the following steps:

1. While logged in to Semgrep Cloud Platform, click **Settings > Deployment**.
2. In the Code section, click Autofix <i class="fa-solid fa-toggle-large-on"></i> if it is not yet enabled.
3. Click <i class="fa-solid fa-square-check"></i> **Also include Assistant-written autofixes**.
4. Optional: Select the **confidence level** on the drop-down box. The value determines the level of quality at which the autofix code appears as a suggestion. A lower confidence level means that Semgrep Assistant displays the autofix suggestion even when the code quality may be incorrect.

:::tip
A low confidence level is recommended, as even incorrect suggestions may be useful starting points.
:::

![ Screenshot of Semgrep Assistant generating a potential fix](/img/semgrep-assistant-autofix.png)
*Figure*. Semgrep Assistant generating a potential fix.

## View Assistant recommendations

You can [view all of Semgrep Assistant's
recommendations](/semgrep-code/findings/#filter-findings) by going to Semgrep
Cloud Platform's **Findings** page and filtering by **Recommendation** or
**Component**.

## Use Semgrep Assistant to analyze findings (beta)

If you have [enabled
Assistant](/semgrep-code/semgrep-assistant-code/#enable-semgrep-assistant),
you can use the **Analyze** button on the [Findings
page](/semgrep-code/findings) to trigger all Assistant functions, including
autofix, autotriage, and component tagging.

![Assistant Analyze button on Findings page](/img/scp-assistant.png#md-width)

After Assistant performs these
functions, you can see your results on the **Findings** page using the
**Recommendation** or **Component** filters.

To analyze your findings with Assistant:

1. On the [Findings](https://semgrep.dev/orgs/-/findings?tab=open) page, select
   the findings that you want Assistant to analyze.
2. Click **Analyze**.
3. In the confirmation window that appears, confirm that you want to
   analyze your findings with Assistant.

The amount of time required to analyze your findings varies, but SCP
displays a notification that provides an estimated wait time.

When viewing your findings, you can see false positive and true positive
recommendations when viewing the finding details pages if you choose **No
Grouping** instead of **Group by Rule**.

## Provide feedback to Semgrep Assistant

If Semgrep Assistant suggests that a finding is a false positive, you are prompted to leave feedback. Your feedback helps Semgrep refine the Assistant feature and is very much appreciated.

* In Slack notifications, **Agree** and **Disagree** buttons appear under the Assistant recommendation message.
* In Semgrep Cloud Platform, the Assistant recommendation appears under **Activity** for a finding, along with **Agree and ignore** or **Disagree** buttons.
* In GitHub pull requests, you are prompted to leave feedback using `/semgrep assistant agree|disagree`.

If Semgrep Assistant suggests that a finding is a true positive and supplies an autofix suggestion, there is no automated mechanism to leave feedback on this outcome. Feel free to contact the Semgrep team using one of the methods below to let us know your thoughts!

<MoreHelp />

Commit message:

Seth/remove assistant beta label (#1415)

docs/semgrep-code/semgrep-assistant-code.md, after:

---
slug: semgrep-assistant-code
append_help_link: true
title: AI-assisted triage and autofix
hide_title: true
description: Enable Semgrep Assistant in your PR comments to provide tips for triage and remediation of Semgrep findings. 
tags:
  - Semgrep Code
---

import MoreHelp from "/src/components/MoreHelp"
import Tabs from '@theme/Tabs';
import TabItem from '@theme/TabItem';

# Semgrep Assistant for Semgrep Code

Receive GPT-4-powered security recommendations designed to reduce the time spent when reviewing Semgrep Code findings. Semgrep Assistant can leave comments in pull requests (PRs) and Slack notifications. These comments provide recommendations for triage and code remediation, such as assessing if a finding is a true or false positive.

![Screenshot of Semgrep Assistant message in GitHub](/img/semgrep-assistant-github.png)
*Figure*. Semgrep Assistant detecting a false positive.

This document provides an overview of the following:

* Feature availability, support, and maturity
* Privacy and legal aspects
* How to enable Semgrep Assistant
* How to receive notifications or comments from Semgrep Assistant

:::info Assistant content 
Assistant content is generated by large language models (LLMs). Please review carefully and leave feedback on the PR comments from Semgrep Assistant to help the Semgrep team improve Semgrep Assistant.
::: 

## Feature support and availability

### Source code management

* This feature is available to users of the following source code managers (SCMs):
    * GitHub Cloud
    * All GitLab plans, both SaaS and self-managed
* Semgrep Assistant does not support GitHub Enterprise Server (self-hosted).

### Semgrep products

* Semgrep Assistant is available for any Semgrep Cloud Platform user. This includes users who are using Semgrep Cloud Platform for **free**.
* Semgrep Assistant is not available on Semgrep CLI.
* Semgrep Assistant works exclusively on Semgrep Code findings.

### Language support

Semgrep Assistant supports all the same languages as Semgrep Code. See [Supported languages](/supported-languages) for more information.

## Privacy and legal considerations

Semgrep gets API permissions to access code on your pre-selected GitHub or GitLab repositories.

* Semgrep Assistant logs and stores the GPT prompts and responses for the sake of performance evaluation, which include source code snippets.
* Semgrep Assistant sends relevant lines of code to OpenAI's API, where currently, the "relevant lines of code" means lines that are part of the Semgrep finding, plus 10 lines of context on each side. Semgrep, Inc. is likely to expand this, potentially to the entire file, as we learn how to pass more useful context.
* Semgrep stores and retains GPT's responses based on these code snippets for up to 6 months. Semgrep, Inc. will update you with at least a 30-day notice if we make any changes to the retention policy.
* Semgrep, Inc. is a paying customer of OpenAI and has a Data Protection Agreement signed with them (provided upon request by [contacting support](/docs/support). The code snippets we upload are persisted by OpenAI temporarily, following their data usage policies at [Open AI API data Usage Policies](https://openai.com/policies/api-data-usage-policies).
* Semgrep, Inc. takes the following steps to protect data that is processed by AI since Assistant requires the sharing of code snippets with a third party:
  * Semgrep shares code snippets with OpenAI without identifying the customer or repository name.
  * Semgrep only shares the code necessary to enlist the help of GPT in automating the resolution of each specific alert.
  * Semgrep only accesses source code repositories on a file-by-file basis; it does not need or request org-level access to your codebase.
* When using Semgrep Assistant, source code **does** leave your repository; Assistant submits part of the file with a finding to OpenAI for processing by a GPT model. OpenAI is not allowed to use the submitted code for training their models.
* Regarding your data privacy, none of your personal information is shared with OpenAI as a part of the Semgrep Assistant feature.
* Semgrep, Inc. and OpenAI do not obtain any rights to your source code. Your source code remains yours, and Semgrep or OpenAI accesses it to the limited extent necessary to provide the Semgrep Assistant service. Once the results are returned to you, Semgrep Assistant deletes the shared snippets. OpenAI retains copies of the content sent to them for a maximum of 30 days to monitor for abuse, as indicated in their API Data Usage Policies.
* Because Semgrep Assistant accesses OpenAI’s services through the API, OpenAI does not use any of the code provided to them to improve their services (see Section 3(c) of their Terms of Use).
* To a limited extent, using Semgrep Assistant changes the terms of your agreement with Semgrep, Inc. Specifically, sharing code snippets with Semgrep Assistant as part of this feature expands the scope of the data to which you grant Semgrep, Inc. a limited license to provide services to you (see Section 5.1 of our Subscriber Agreement).

For more details, see the [Semgrep Assistant FAQ](https://get.semgrep.dev/assistant).

## Required GitHub or GitLab repository permissions

Semgrep Assistant requires the same permissions that Semgrep needs to integrate with GitHub or GitLab, such as permissions that allow Semgrep to run CI jobs and post comments to PRs or MRs. See [<i class="fa-regular fa-file-lines"></i> Requested permissions for GitHub and GitLab](/deployment/checklist/#permissions) for a list of permissions.

Assistant extends normal Semgrep capabilities by providing contextually aware AI-generated suggestions. In order to build that context, it requires extra permissions in GitHub and GitLab.

<Tabs
    defaultValue="github"
    values={[
    {label: 'GitHub', value: 'github'},
    {label: 'GitLab', value: 'gitlab'},
    ]}
>

<TabItem value='github'>

Semgrep Assistant requires [read access to your code in GitHub](https://docs.github.com/en/rest/overview/permissions-required-for-github-apps?apiVersion=2022-11-28). This is done through a private Semgrep GitHub app that you install during Assistant setup. This private Semgrep GitHub app:

* Is fully under your control so you can revoke access or specific permissions at any time by visiting **Settings > Applications** in GitHub.
* Only accesses source code repositories on a file-by-file basis; it does not need or request org-level access to your codebase.
* Can be configured to limit its scope to specific repositories. You do not need to give read access to all repositories in your GitHub organization. 

</TabItem>

<TabItem value='gitlab'>

Semgrep Assistant requires the **API scope** to run in both GitLab SaaS and GitLab self-managed instances. This can be specified at either the [project access token level](https://docs.gitlab.com/ee/user/project/settings/project_access_tokens.html) or [personal access token level](https://docs.gitlab.com/ee/user/profile/personal_access_tokens.html). 

* You can revoke [project access tokens](https://docs.gitlab.com/ee/user/project/settings/project_access_tokens.html#revoke-a-project-access-token) or [personal access tokens](https://docs.gitlab.com/ee/user/profile/personal_access_tokens.html#revoke-a-personal-access-token) at any time. 
* Semgrep Assistant only accesses source code repositories (projects) on a file-by-file basis; it does not need or request org-level access to your codebase.
* The token can be configured to limit its scope to specific projects or individuals. You do not need to give read access to all projects in your GitLab organization.

</TabItem>
</Tabs>

## Enable Semgrep Assistant

<Tabs
    defaultValue="github"
    values={[
    {label: 'GitHub', value: 'github'},
    {label: 'GitLab', value: 'gitlab'},
    ]}
>

<TabItem value='github'>

:::info Prerequisites
* You have completed a [Semgrep core deployment](/deployment/core-deployment).
* You have set rules to **Comment** or **Block** mode in your [<i class="fas fa-external-link fa-sm"></i> Policies page](https://semgrep.dev/orgs/-/policies).
:::

1. Sign in to [Semgrep Cloud Platform](https://semgrep.dev/login).
2. Click **[<i class="fa-solid fa-gear"></i> Settings](https://semgrep.dev/orgs/-/settings/)**. 
3. In the **Products** section, on the **Assistant** entry, click **Set up**.
![Screenshot of Semgrep Assistant setup button](/img/semgrep-assistant-setup.png#md-width)
4. Approve the Semgrep Assistant terms of service.
5. Provide the GitHub namespace to install Semgrep Assistant to. This is usually your account or organization name.
6. You are redirected to the Semgrep Assistant installation page. The steps are as follows:
    1. You must create a private `semgrep-app` in GitHub if you do not have one already. Click **Create app** under step 3 to do this.
    2. You are redirected to GitHub. Follow the instructions to create a private `semgrep-app`.
    3. You are redirected back to Semgrep Cloud Platform. Click **Install**.
7. You are redirected to the **Settings** page. In the **Code** section, Click **Auto-triage with Semgrep Assistant** <i class="fa-solid fa-toggle-large-on"></i>.
    ![Screenshot of Semgrep Assistant toggle location](/img/semgrep-assistant-enable.png)
8. Click <i class="fa-solid fa-square-check"></i> **PR/MR Comments** to receive comments.
9. Click <i class="fa-solid fa-square-check"></i> **Slack notifications** to receive Slack notifications.

Semgrep Assistant is now enabled and appears in future PRs. 
</TabItem>

<TabItem value='gitlab'>

:::info Prerequisites
* You have completed a [Semgrep core deployment](/deployment/core-deployment).
* You have set rules to **Comment** or **Block** mode in your [<i class="fas fa-external-link fa-sm"></i> Policies page](https://semgrep.dev/orgs/-/policies).
:::

1. Sign in to [Semgrep Cloud Platform <i class="fas fa-external-link fa-xs"></i>](https://semgrep.dev/login) using your GitLab account.
2. Click **[<i class="fa-solid fa-gear"></i> Settings](https://semgrep.dev/orgs/-/settings/)**. 
3. In the **Products** section, on the **Assistant** entry, click the **toggle <i class="fa-solid fa-toggle-large-on"></i>**.
![Screenshot of Semgrep Assistant setup button](/img/semgrep-assistant-gl-setup.png#md-width)
4. Click **Accept & enable Assistant** to accept the Semgrep Assistant terms of service.
5. In the **Code** section, Click **Auto-triage with Semgrep Assistant** <i class="fa-solid fa-toggle-large-on"></i>.
    ![Screenshot of Semgrep Assistant toggle location](/img/semgrep-assistant-enable.png)
8. Click <i class="fa-solid fa-square-check"></i> **PR/MR Comments** to receive comments.
9. Click <i class="fa-solid fa-square-check"></i> **Slack notifications** to receive Slack notifications.

You have successfully enabled Semgrep Assistant for cloud-hosted GitLab plans.
![MR comment from Semgrep Assistant in GitLab](/img/assistant-gl-comment.png#md-width)
*Figure*. MR comment from Semgrep Assistant in GitLab.

</TabItem>
</Tabs>

![Screenshot of Semgrep Assistant in a Slack notification](/img/semgrep-assistant-slack.png)
*Figure*. Semgrep Assistant in a Slack notification.

To further customize Semgrep Assistant, see:

* [Suggesting autofix code snippets to resolve the finding](#suggest-autofix-code-snippets-to-resolve-the-finding)

:::caution Not receiving PR comments?
Semgrep Assistant messages only appear in your PR comments for rules that are set to Comment or Block mode in the Rule Management page. Ensure the following:

* Ensure that you have set rules to Comment or Block mode.
    ![Screenshot of Policies modes](/img/semgrep-assistant-comment.png)
* Ensure that you have selected PR/MR comments in **Semgrep Cloud Platform > Settings > Deployment** in the **Code** section.
:::

## Types of recommendations from Semgrep Assistant

The following are recommendations users can receive from Semgrep Assistant.

### Analyze if a finding is a true or false positive

Semgrep Assistant can analyze if your finding is a true or false positive. The accuracy of its recommendations is roughly 60% and varies based on the language and framework you are using. This is its default use case. This feature is active in both PR and MR comments and Slack notifications.

### Suggest autofix code snippets to resolve the finding

Semgrep Assistant can suggest [autofix](/writing-rules/autofix/) code snippets for Semgrep rules which do not have human-written autofix suggestions. This feature is only active in PR and MR comments.

To enable autofix by Semgrep Assistant, perform the following steps:

1. While logged in to Semgrep Cloud Platform, click **Settings > Deployment**.
2. In the Code section, click Autofix <i class="fa-solid fa-toggle-large-on"></i> if it is not yet enabled.
3. Click <i class="fa-solid fa-square-check"></i> **Also include Assistant-written autofixes**.
4. Optional: Select the **confidence level** on the drop-down box. The value determines the level of quality at which the autofix code appears as a suggestion. A lower confidence level means that Semgrep Assistant displays the autofix suggestion even when the code quality may be incorrect.

:::tip
A low confidence level is recommended, as even incorrect suggestions may be useful starting points.
:::

![ Screenshot of Semgrep Assistant generating a potential fix](/img/semgrep-assistant-autofix.png)
*Figure*. Semgrep Assistant generating a potential fix.

## View Assistant recommendations

You can [view all of Semgrep Assistant's
recommendations](/semgrep-code/findings/#filter-findings) by going to Semgrep
Cloud Platform's **Findings** page and filtering by **Recommendation** or
**Component**.

## Use Semgrep Assistant to analyze findings

If you have [enabled
Assistant](/semgrep-code/semgrep-assistant-code/#enable-semgrep-assistant),
you can use the **Analyze** button on the [Findings
page](/semgrep-code/findings) to trigger all Assistant functions, including
autofix, autotriage, and component tagging.

![Assistant Analyze button on Findings page](/img/scp-assistant.png#md-width)

After Assistant performs these
functions, you can see your results on the **Findings** page using the
**Recommendation** or **Component** filters.

To analyze your findings with Assistant:

1. On the [Findings](https://semgrep.dev/orgs/-/findings?tab=open) page, select
   the findings that you want Assistant to analyze.
2. Click **Analyze**.
3. In the confirmation window that appears, confirm that you want to
   analyze your findings with Assistant.

The amount of time required to analyze your findings varies, but SCP
displays a notification that provides an estimated wait time.

When viewing your findings, you can see false positive and true positive
recommendations when viewing the finding details pages if you choose **No
Grouping** instead of **Group by Rule**.

## Provide feedback to Semgrep Assistant

If Semgrep Assistant suggests that a finding is a false positive, you are prompted to leave feedback. Your feedback helps Semgrep refine the Assistant feature and is very much appreciated.

* In Slack notifications, **Agree** and **Disagree** buttons appear under the Assistant recommendation message.
* In Semgrep Cloud Platform, the Assistant recommendation appears under **Activity** for a finding, along with **Agree and ignore** or **Disagree** buttons.
* In GitHub pull requests, you are prompted to leave feedback using `/semgrep assistant agree|disagree`.

If Semgrep Assistant suggests that a finding is a true positive and supplies an autofix suggestion, there is no automated mechanism to leave feedback on this outcome. Feel free to contact the Semgrep team using one of the methods below to let us know your thoughts!

<MoreHelp />
