docs/semgrep-code/triage-remediation.md, before:

---
slug: triage-remediation
append_help_link: true
title: Triage and remediation
hide_title: false
description: Learn how about Semgrep Code's triage status for findings and how to triage and remediate findings.
tags:
    - Semgrep Cloud Platform
    - Team & Enterprise Tier
---

# Triage and remediate Semgrep Code findings in Semgrep Cloud Platform

import TriageStatuses from "/src/components/reference/_triage-states.mdx"
import RemoveRuleset from "/src/components/procedure/_remove-ruleset.mdx"
import IgnoreIndividualFindingNoGrouping from "/src/components/procedure/_ignore-individual-finding-no-grouping.mdx"
import MoreHelp from "/src/components/MoreHelp"

This article shows you how to triage and manage findings identified by Semgrep Code using Semgrep Cloud Platform, including:

- **Fixing the issue detected.** This is Semgrep's primary goal. If the rule produces a **true positive** finding, such as a security issue, developers must change or address the code so that the rule no longer matches it.
- **Removing the rule or code that generated the finding.** There are cases where Semgrep scans a file it should ignore or scans the file with an irrelevant rule. You can [disable the rule](/semgrep-code/policies#disabling-rules) from the **Policies** page or [add the file to the ignore list](/ignoring-files-folders-code).
- **Triaging the finding.** Deprioritize a finding if it's not useful or important through triage. Triage actions include ignoring and reopening a finding that was previously ignored. Triaging a finding to **ignore** is one method to handle **false positives** without changing a rule or your code.
<!-- - **Create a Jira ticket from the finding (for Enterprise/Team Tier users.)** For findings that require more extensive refactoring, users can create a ticket in Jira through Semgrep Cloud Platform to track its resolution. -->

## Triage statuses

**Triage** is the prioritization of a finding based on policies or criteria set by your team or organization, such as severity, coding standards, business goals, and product goals.

Semgrep Cloud Platform uses the logic specified in the table below to automatically mark findings as either fixed or removed when a finding is no longer present in the code. You can also manually ignore findings in Semgrep Cloud Platform directly through **triage** or **bulk triage**.

The triage statuses are as follows:

<TriageStatuses />

## Manage findings

The following sections show you have to manage your findings by:

* Fixing the underlying code
* Disabling a rule or a ruleset
* Ignoring a finding
* Reopening a finding

Note that some actions, such as ignoring and reopening findings, require different steps based on whether you have chosen **Group by Rule** or **No Grouping** when viewing your results on the **Findings** page.

![Screenshot of Semgrep Cloud Platform triage menu](/img/app-findings-triage.png#md-width)

### Fix a finding

To **fix a finding**, update or refactor the code such that the Semgrep rule pattern no longer matches the code.

### Disable a ruleset or a rule

<RemoveRuleset />

### Ignore findings

One way to handle **false positives** without changing the rule or your code is to set the finding's triage status to **ignore**.

<details>
<summary>Ignore findings in <b>Group by Rule</b> view</summary>

To **ignore findings** in the **Group by Rule** view:

1. On the [Findings](https://semgrep.dev/orgs/-/findings?tab=open) page, click the **Status** filter, and then select **Open** status to see all open findings.
2. Perform one of these steps:
    - To select more findings from the same rule, click the **Triage** button on the card of the finding.
    - To select individual findings reported by a rule, fill in the checkboxes of the finding, and then click the **Triage** button on the card of the finding.
3. Optional: Write a reason to describe why the finding was ignored.
4. Click **Ignore**.

</details>

<details>
<summary>Ignore findings in <b> No grouping</b> view</summary>

To **ignore individual finding** in the **No grouping** view, follow these steps:

<IgnoreIndividualFindingNoGrouping />

To **ignore multiple findings** in the **No grouping** view, follow these steps:

1. On the [Findings](https://semgrep.dev/orgs/-/findings?tab=open) page, click the **Status** filter, and then select **Open** status to see all open findings.
2. Perform one of these steps:
    - Select all findings by clicking on the header row checkbox that states **Showing X open findings**. You can navigate to succeeding pages and add other results to the current selection.
    - Select more findings by clicking on their checkboxes.
3. Click the **Triage** button.
4. Optional: Select a reason of why you are ignoring a finding. Choose either: **False positive**, **Acceptable risk**, **No time to fix**
5. Select **Ignored** from the dropdown menu.
6. Click **Save**.

</details>

### Reopen findings

You can **reopen** a finding that you previously marked as **ignore** at any time.

<details>
<summary>Reopen findings in <b>Group by Rule</b> view</summary>

To **reopen findings** in the **Group by Rule** view, follow these steps:

1. On the [Findings](https://semgrep.dev/orgs/-/findings?tab=open) page, click the **Status** filter, and then select the **Ignored** or **Fixed** status to see all ignored or fixed findings.
2. Perform one of these steps:
    - To select more findings from the same rule, click the **Triage** button on the card of the finding.
    - To select individual findings reported by a rule, fill in the checkboxes for the finding, and then click the **Triage** button on the finding card.
3. Optional: Write a reason to describe why the finding was ignored.
4. Click **Reopen**.

</details>

<details>
<summary>Reopen findings in <b>No grouping</b> view</summary>

To **reopen individual findings** in the No grouping view, follow these steps:

1. On the [Findings](https://semgrep.dev/orgs/-/findings?tab=open) page, click the **Status** filter, and then select **Ignored** or **Fixed** status to see all ignored or fixed findings.
2. Next to a finding you want to ignore, click the **Reopen** <i class="fa-regular fa-chevron-down"></i>.
3. Optional: Add a note.
4. Click **Save**.

To **reopen multiple findings** in the **No grouping** view, follow these steps:

1. On the [Findings](https://semgrep.dev/orgs/-/findings?tab=open) page, click the **Status** filter, and then select the **Ignored** or **Fixed** status to see all ignored or fixed findings.
1. Perform one of these steps:
    - Select all findings by clicking on the header row checkbox that states **Showing X open findings**. You can navigate to succeeding pages and add other results to the current selection.
    - Select relevant findings one by one by clicking on their checkboxes.
1. Click the **Triage** button.
1. In the **Triage state** dropdown menu, select **Reopened**.
1. Click **Save**.

</details>

## Ignore findings through GitHub PR comments

Triage your Semgrep Cloud Platform findings displayed as comments in GitHub PRs by replying with another comment.

:::info Prerequisites
- A **private** GitHub.com repository. This feature is not enabled for public GitHub.com repositories or GitHub Enterprise public and private repositories.
- You have completed a [Semgrep core deployment](/deployment/core-deployment).
:::

To enable triage through comments:

1. In Semgrep Cloud Platform, go to your organization's [Settings](https://semgrep.dev/orgs/-/projects/-/repo-to-scan) page.
2. Enable the **Triage via comment** <i class="fa-solid fa-toggle-large-on"></i> toggle.

To triage a finding in GitHub:

1. Find an open comment created by Semgrep Cloud Platform in GitHub PR:
    ![Screenshot of Semgrep Cloud Platform comment in GitHub](/img/semgrep-app-comment-github.png#md-width)

2. In a subsequent comment, reply with:
    <pre><code>
    /semgrep ignore <span className="placeholder">&lt;reason&gt;</span>
    </code></pre>
   Substitute the colored placeholder <code><span className="placeholder">&lt;reason&gt;</span></code> with text to help the reader understand why the status of a comment is ignored. Alternatively, you can reopen a finding that was previously ignored:
   <pre><code>
    /semgrep open <span className="placeholder">&lt;reason&gt;</span>
    </code></pre>

Ignoring a finding through a comment in GitHub changes the status of the finding to **ignored** in the Semgrep Cloud Platform. The GitHub conversation itself is not automatically resolved by this process.

:::tip
You can also reopen a finding that was previously ignored. To do so, in step 2. of the preceding procedure, use `/semgrep open`. For `/semgrep open` the reason field is optional.
:::

<!--
## Creating Jira tickets from findings

Semgrep supports the creation of Jira tickets from a finding. This enables developers and project managers to create relevant issues within their project or bug-tracking environment. This feature is available to Team/Enterprise Tier users.

To **create a ticket**:

1. Set up a Jira integration through the [Notifications](/semgrep-app/notifications) guide.
2. Click the **three-dot icon** of the entry.
3. Click **Create issue with Jira**.
-->

## Reduce the number of false positive findings

* One way to address false positives is to improve the rule. Create [test cases](/docs/writing-rules/testing-rules) to ensure that the rule performs as intended.
* If a rule from Semgrep Registry is useful, but it captures too many false positives, you can reach out to [support@semgrep.dev](mailto:support@semgrep.dev). This helps Semgrep's rule-writing efforts and improves the quality of rules that you run.
* You can report rules with a high false positive rate from your source code manager (SCM) if you [enable Semgrep Cloud Platform to leave comments in PRs or MRs](/category/pr-or-mr-comments). Semgrep Cloud Platform provides a link after each comment for users to indicate if the finding is a false positive.

Commit message:

Rename Semgrep Cloud Platform [(SCP)] to Semgrep AppSec Platform

docs/semgrep-code/triage-remediation.md, after:

---
slug: triage-remediation
append_help_link: true
title: Triage and remediation
hide_title: false
description: Learn how about Semgrep Code's triage status for findings and how to triage and remediate findings.
tags:
    - Semgrep AppSec Platform
    - Team & Enterprise Tier
---

# Triage and remediate Semgrep Code findings in Semgrep AppSec Platform

import TriageStatuses from "/src/components/reference/_triage-states.mdx"
import RemoveRuleset from "/src/components/procedure/_remove-ruleset.mdx"
import IgnoreIndividualFindingNoGrouping from "/src/components/procedure/_ignore-individual-finding-no-grouping.mdx"
import MoreHelp from "/src/components/MoreHelp"

This article shows you how to triage and manage findings identified by Semgrep Code using Semgrep AppSec Platform, including:

- **Fixing the issue detected.** This is Semgrep's primary goal. If the rule produces a **true positive** finding, such as a security issue, developers must change or address the code so that the rule no longer matches it.
- **Removing the rule or code that generated the finding.** There are cases where Semgrep scans a file it should ignore or scans the file with an irrelevant rule. You can [disable the rule](/semgrep-code/policies#disabling-rules) from the **Policies** page or [add the file to the ignore list](/ignoring-files-folders-code).
- **Triaging the finding.** Deprioritize a finding if it's not useful or important through triage. Triage actions include ignoring and reopening a finding that was previously ignored. Triaging a finding to **ignore** is one method to handle **false positives** without changing a rule or your code.
<!-- - **Create a Jira ticket from the finding (for Enterprise/Team Tier users.)** For findings that require more extensive refactoring, users can create a ticket in Jira through Semgrep AppSec Platform to track its resolution. -->

## Triage statuses

**Triage** is the prioritization of a finding based on policies or criteria set by your team or organization, such as severity, coding standards, business goals, and product goals.

Semgrep AppSec Platform uses the logic specified in the table below to automatically mark findings as either fixed or removed when a finding is no longer present in the code. You can also manually ignore findings in Semgrep AppSec Platform directly through **triage** or **bulk triage**.

The triage statuses are as follows:

<TriageStatuses />

## Manage findings

The following sections show you have to manage your findings by:

* Fixing the underlying code
* Disabling a rule or a ruleset
* Ignoring a finding
* Reopening a finding

Note that some actions, such as ignoring and reopening findings, require different steps based on whether you have chosen **Group by Rule** or **No Grouping** when viewing your results on the **Findings** page.

![Screenshot of Semgrep AppSec Platform triage menu](/img/app-findings-triage.png#md-width)

### Fix a finding

To **fix a finding**, update or refactor the code such that the Semgrep rule pattern no longer matches the code.

### Disable a ruleset or a rule

<RemoveRuleset />

### Ignore findings

One way to handle **false positives** without changing the rule or your code is to set the finding's triage status to **ignore**.

<details>
<summary>Ignore findings in <b>Group by Rule</b> view</summary>

To **ignore findings** in the **Group by Rule** view:

1. On the [Findings](https://semgrep.dev/orgs/-/findings?tab=open) page, click the **Status** filter, and then select **Open** status to see all open findings.
2. Perform one of these steps:
    - To select more findings from the same rule, click the **Triage** button on the card of the finding.
    - To select individual findings reported by a rule, fill in the checkboxes of the finding, and then click the **Triage** button on the card of the finding.
3. Optional: Write a reason to describe why the finding was ignored.
4. Click **Ignore**.

</details>

<details>
<summary>Ignore findings in <b> No grouping</b> view</summary>

To **ignore individual finding** in the **No grouping** view, follow these steps:

<IgnoreIndividualFindingNoGrouping />

To **ignore multiple findings** in the **No grouping** view, follow these steps:

1. On the [Findings](https://semgrep.dev/orgs/-/findings?tab=open) page, click the **Status** filter, and then select **Open** status to see all open findings.
2. Perform one of these steps:
    - Select all findings by clicking on the header row checkbox that states **Showing X open findings**. You can navigate to succeeding pages and add other results to the current selection.
    - Select more findings by clicking on their checkboxes.
3. Click the **Triage** button.
4. Optional: Select a reason of why you are ignoring a finding. Choose either: **False positive**, **Acceptable risk**, **No time to fix**
5. Select **Ignored** from the dropdown menu.
6. Click **Save**.

</details>

### Reopen findings

You can **reopen** a finding that you previously marked as **ignore** at any time.

<details>
<summary>Reopen findings in <b>Group by Rule</b> view</summary>

To **reopen findings** in the **Group by Rule** view, follow these steps:

1. On the [Findings](https://semgrep.dev/orgs/-/findings?tab=open) page, click the **Status** filter, and then select the **Ignored** or **Fixed** status to see all ignored or fixed findings.
2. Perform one of these steps:
    - To select more findings from the same rule, click the **Triage** button on the card of the finding.
    - To select individual findings reported by a rule, fill in the checkboxes for the finding, and then click the **Triage** button on the finding card.
3. Optional: Write a reason to describe why the finding was ignored.
4. Click **Reopen**.

</details>

<details>
<summary>Reopen findings in <b>No grouping</b> view</summary>

To **reopen individual findings** in the No grouping view, follow these steps:

1. On the [Findings](https://semgrep.dev/orgs/-/findings?tab=open) page, click the **Status** filter, and then select **Ignored** or **Fixed** status to see all ignored or fixed findings.
2. Next to a finding you want to ignore, click the **Reopen** <i class="fa-regular fa-chevron-down"></i>.
3. Optional: Add a note.
4. Click **Save**.

To **reopen multiple findings** in the **No grouping** view, follow these steps:

1. On the [Findings](https://semgrep.dev/orgs/-/findings?tab=open) page, click the **Status** filter, and then select the **Ignored** or **Fixed** status to see all ignored or fixed findings.
1. Perform one of these steps:
    - Select all findings by clicking on the header row checkbox that states **Showing X open findings**. You can navigate to succeeding pages and add other results to the current selection.
    - Select relevant findings one by one by clicking on their checkboxes.
1. Click the **Triage** button.
1. In the **Triage state** dropdown menu, select **Reopened**.
1. Click **Save**.

</details>

## Ignore findings through GitHub PR comments

Triage your Semgrep AppSec Platform findings displayed as comments in GitHub PRs by replying with another comment.

:::info Prerequisites
- A **private** GitHub.com repository. This feature is not enabled for public GitHub.com repositories or GitHub Enterprise public and private repositories.
- You have completed a [Semgrep core deployment](/deployment/core-deployment).
:::

To enable triage through comments:

1. In Semgrep AppSec Platform, go to your organization's [Settings](https://semgrep.dev/orgs/-/projects/-/repo-to-scan) page.
2. Enable the **Triage via comment** <i class="fa-solid fa-toggle-large-on"></i> toggle.

To triage a finding in GitHub:

1. Find an open comment created by Semgrep AppSec Platform in GitHub PR:
    ![Screenshot of Semgrep AppSec Platform comment in GitHub](/img/semgrep-app-comment-github.png#md-width)

2. In a subsequent comment, reply with:
    <pre><code>
    /semgrep ignore <span className="placeholder">&lt;reason&gt;</span>
    </code></pre>
   Substitute the colored placeholder <code><span className="placeholder">&lt;reason&gt;</span></code> with text to help the reader understand why the status of a comment is ignored. Alternatively, you can reopen a finding that was previously ignored:
   <pre><code>
    /semgrep open <span className="placeholder">&lt;reason&gt;</span>
    </code></pre>

Ignoring a finding through a comment in GitHub changes the status of the finding to **ignored** in the Semgrep AppSec Platform. The GitHub conversation itself is not automatically resolved by this process.

:::tip
You can also reopen a finding that was previously ignored. To do so, in step 2. of the preceding procedure, use `/semgrep open`. For `/semgrep open` the reason field is optional.
:::

<!--
## Creating Jira tickets from findings

Semgrep supports the creation of Jira tickets from a finding. This enables developers and project managers to create relevant issues within their project or bug-tracking environment. This feature is available to Team/Enterprise Tier users.

To **create a ticket**:

1. Set up a Jira integration through the [Notifications](/semgrep-app/notifications) guide.
2. Click the **three-dot icon** of the entry.
3. Click **Create issue with Jira**.
-->

## Reduce the number of false positive findings

* One way to address false positives is to improve the rule. Create [test cases](/docs/writing-rules/testing-rules) to ensure that the rule performs as intended.
* If a rule from Semgrep Registry is useful, but it captures too many false positives, you can reach out to [support@semgrep.dev](mailto:support@semgrep.dev). This helps Semgrep's rule-writing efforts and improves the quality of rules that you run.
* You can report rules with a high false positive rate from your source code manager (SCM) if you [enable Semgrep AppSec Platform to leave comments in PRs or MRs](/category/pr-or-mr-comments). Semgrep AppSec Platform provides a link after each comment for users to indicate if the finding is a false positive.
