---
slug: july-2023
append_help_link: true
title: July 2023
hide_title: true
description: >-
  Release notes include the changes, fixes, and additions in specific versions of Semgrep.
---

# July 2023 release notes


## Semgrep OSS Engine

This section of release notes includes upgrades of Semgrep OSS Engine for versions ranging between **1.31.0** and **1.33.2**.

### Added

* Added rule option `interfile: true`, which is set under the `options` key. This rule option replaces setting interfile under the `metadata` key. 
* Docker: Created a `semgrep` user in for the official Semgrep docker container so that people can run it as a non-root user (gh-8116)
* Promql: Initial language support. ([#8281](https://github.com/returntocorp/semgrep/pull/8281))
* `.h` files now run when C or C++ are selected as the language.
* `.cjs` and `.mjs` files now run when JavaScript is selected as the language. 
* Rule syntax: Added metavariable type extension for Semgrep Rule Syntax 2.0 (also known as Experimental Semgrep Syntax). This addition introduces recent changes in Semgrep rule syntax 1.0 to the experimental syntax as well. ([#8183](https://github.com/returntocorp/semgrep/issues/8183))
    ```yaml
    # previous rule syntax 2.0
    rules:
      - id: no-string-eqeq
        message: find errors
        severity: WARNING
        languages:
          - java
        match:
          all:
            - not: null == (String $Y)
            - $X == (String $Y)
    ```
    ```yaml
   # new additions to rule syntax 2.0 (experimental syntax)
    rules:
      - id: no-string-eqeq
        message: find errors
        severity: WARNING
        languages:
          - java
        match:
          all:
            - not: null == $Y
            - $X == $Y
          where:
            - metavariable: $Y
              type: String 
    ```
* Taint analysis: Parameters to functions in languages with pattern matching in function arguments, such as Rust and OCaml, now transmit taint when they are sources. This works with nested patterns too. For example, in Rust:
    ```rust
    fn f ((x, (y, z)): t) {
      let x = 2;
    }
    ```
    Tainting the sole argument to this function results in all of the identifiers `x`, `y`, and `z` now being tainted. ([#8216](https://github.com/returntocorp/semgrep/pull/8216))
* Rust: Added support for ellipsis patterns in attribute argument positions. For example, `#[get(...)]`. ([#8148](https://github.com/returntocorp/semgrep/pull/8234))
* Rust: Added typed metavariable support for Rust (). Users can create `TypedMetavar` using Rust's type annotation syntax `:`. For example, the following rule works for matching `HttpResponseBuilder` type of variables:
    ```yaml
    rules:
    - id: no-direct-response-write
      patterns:
      - pattern: '($BUILDER : HttpResponseBuilder).body(...)'
      - pattern-not: '($BUILDER : HttpResponseBuilder).body("...".to_string())'
      message: find dangerous codes
      severity: WARNING
      languages: [rust]
    ```
* Rust: Added the ability to taint macro calls through its arguments, in macro calls with multiple arguments. (#[8209](https://github.com/returntocorp/semgrep/pull/8209))

### Fixed

- Semgrep no longer crashes when running --test (pa-2963) (todo)
- Dockerfile language support: String matching is now done by contents, treating the strings `foo`, `'foo'`, or `"foo"` as equal. ([#8229](https://github.com/returntocorp/semgrep/pull/8229))
- Julia: Fixed a bug where try-catch patterns would not match properly. Now, you can use an empty try-catch pattern, such as:
    ```julia
    try
      ...
    catch
      ...
    end
    ```
    to catch only Julia code which does not specify an identifier for the catch.
    - Otherwise, if you want to match any kind of try-catch, you can specify an ellipsis for the catch identifier instead:
    ```julia
    try
      ...
    catch ...
      ...
    end
    ```
    and this matches any try-catch, including those that do not specify an identifier for the catch. It is strictly more general than the previous.
- Rust: Fixed an issue where implicit returns did not allow taint to flow, and various other small translation issues that would affect taint. ([#8325](https://github.com/returntocorp/semgrep/pull/8325))
- TypeScript and JavaScript: Fixed an issue leading to incorrect autofix results involving JS/TS async arrow functions, for example, `async () => {}` ([#7353](https://github.com/returntocorp/semgrep/pull/7353))
- Dockerfile: Single-quoted strings are now parsed without an error. ([#7780](https://github.com/returntocorp/semgrep/pull/7780))
- Go: Fixed issue with patterns such as:
    - `make(...);` 
    - `make(...,$X);` 
    - `make($A,$B)` ([#8171](https://github.com/returntocorp/semgrep/pull/8171))
- Rust: Fixed attribute patterns to allow matching on simple attribute syntax. ([#8234](https://github.com/returntocorp/semgrep/pull/8234))
- Rust: Fixed a bug where standalone metavariable patterns were not matching as expected. ([#8206](https://github.com/returntocorp/semgrep/pull/8206)) 
- Rust: Macro calls which involve dereferencing and reference operators (such as foo!(&x) and foo!(*x)) now properly transmit taint (pa-2951 todo)
- Fixed Python Semgrep pattern parsing to also parse match statements, by chaining in the Python tree-sitter parser, and adding metavariable support to the Python tree-sitter parser.
-Aliengrep mode: Fix whitespace bug preventing correct matching of parentheses. (gh-7990)
- Fixed stack overflow caused by symbolic propagation. (pa-2933)

### Removed

- **Dart** has been removed from experimental support.

## Semgrep Cloud Platform

### Added

- You can now create **Jira tickets** from Semgrep Cloud Platform. This integration feature is in **private beta**. Existing customers can contact their account managers to gain access to this feature.
- Usage limits for Team tier users are now in effect as of July 31, 2023. See the [Usage limits FAQ](/usage-limits) to learn more.
- Various bugfixes and improvements.

## Semgrep Code

### Added

- Added **open findings** column to the Policies page. This column displays the count of open findings for each rule in your Policies. With this column, you can quickly see which rules are producing the most or least amount of findings.
- Added **fix rate** column to the Policies page. This column displays a percentage of resolved fixes associated with the rule, or  "-" if there are no findings for that rule.

### Changed

- Policies page: Rules are now sorted by mode, then by custom rules, then by Semgrep Pro rules, then by Community rules.
- Targets in a `.yarn/` directory are now ignored by the default `.semgrepignore` patterns.

### Removed

- The Rule board has been deprecated and removed. The [Policies page](/semgrep-code/policies) is now the default and sole page for rule management in Semgrep Cloud Platform.

## Semgrep Assistant

### Added

- Semgrep Assistant is now in public beta. Semgrep Assistant is available to any user of Semgrep Cloud Platform. To try it out, see [Enabling Semgrep Assistant](/semgrep-code/semgrep-assistant-code/#enabling-semgrep-assistant).

## Documentation and knowledge base updates

### Added

- Semgrep documentation has added ChatGPT-4 as an experimental means for users to learn about Semgrep. Click the **<i class="fas fa-comment"></i> floating chat icon** and enter a question to receive answers and sources for those answers. This service is powered by [Markprompt](https://markprompt.com).
- Added the following documentation articles:
    - [Semgrep integration guide for partners](/integrating): Use these guidelines to add Semgrep OSS to your tooling, developer stack, or infrastructure.
- Added the following knowlege base articles:
    - [Semgrep scan troubleshooting](/kb/semgrep-code/semgrep-scan-troubleshooting) 
    - [Resolving SSO error BadRequest: Missing attribute](/kb/semgrep-cloud-platform/sso-attribute-error)
    - [How to run different versions of Semgrep](/kb/semgrep-code/run-specific-version) 
    - [Why did the comments on a PR or MR not appear inline?](/kb/semgrep-cloud-platform/inline-pr-comments)
    - [Why aren't findings populating in the GitHub Advanced Security Dashboard after running Semgrep in CI?](/kb/semgrep-ci/github-upload-findings-in-security-dashboard)
- Added explicit steps to [publish **private rules** in the Semgrep Registry](/writing-rules/private-rules).
- Added a new section on [metavariable-type](/writing-rules/experiments/metavariable-type).
- Various piecemeal updates.

<!-- - Importing Semgrep findings into DefectDojo -->

### Changed

- Migrated troubleshooting articles from Semgrep documentation to the knowledge base.
- Updated Semgrep Assistant for Code docs to reflect its public beta status and new self-serve flow.

### Fixed

- Various typographic and layout fixes.

## Semgrep Supply Chain

### Fixed

- Fixed bug in `gradle.lockfile` parser where Semgrep Supply Chain previously threw errors on `empty=` with nothing after it.
- `poetry.lock` parsing: Semgrep Supply Chain now correctly handles empty `toml` tables, quoted table keys, and arbitrarily placed comments.
- Exceptions raised during parsing of manifest files no longer interrupt general parser execution, which previously prevented lockfile parsing if a manifest failed to parse. 
