---
slug: june-2023
append_help_link: true
hide_title: true
title: June 2023
description: >-
  Release notes include the changes, fixes, and additions in specific versions of Semgrep.
toc_max_heading_level: 3
---

# June 2023 release notes

## Semgrep OSS Engine

This section of release notes includes upgrades of Semgrep OSS Engine for versions ranging between **1.27.0** and **1.30.0**.

### Added

* New `--experimental` flag to switch to a new implementation of Semgrep entirely written in OCaml with the following benefits:
  * Faster startup time
  * Incremental display of matches
  * AST (abstract syntax tree) and registry caching
  * A new interactive mode

:::caution
Not all features of the legacy Python Semgrep have been ported.
:::

* Added a new field `metavariable-type` to Semgrep rule syntax. We at Semgrep have added a dedicated field for annotating the type information of metavariables. By adopting this approach, instead of relying solely on language-specific casting syntax, such as Java's `String` class, we improve usability by eliminating the need to write redundant type cast expressions for a single metavariable ([#8119](https://github.com/returntocorp/semgrep/pull/8148)).
  * The new syntax improves support for target languages that lack built-in casting syntax, such as JavaScript.
  * It also promotes a unified approach to expressing type, pattern, and regex constraints for metavariables, resulting in better consistency across rule definitions.
  * The following is an example rule written with the current and new `metavariable-type` syntax:
  ```yaml
    # Current syntax without metavariable-type
    rules:
      - id: no-string-eqeq
        severity: WARNING
        message: find errors
        languages:
          - java
        patterns:
          - pattern-not: null == (String $Y)
          - pattern: $X == (String $Y)
  ```
  ```yaml
  # New syntax with metavariable-type
  rules:
   - id: no-string-eqeq
     severity: WARNING
     message: find errors
     languages:
       - java
     patterns:
       - pattern-not: null == $Y
       - pattern: $X == $Y
       - metavariable-type:
           metavariable: $Y
           type: String
  ```
  * The `metavariable-type` field is now supported for the following languages ([#8148](https://github.com/returntocorp/semgrep/pull/8148), [#8165](https://github.com/returntocorp/semgrep/pull/8165),[#8126](https://github.com/returntocorp/semgrep/pull/8126)):
    * Kotlin
    * Go 
    * Scala
    * C#
    * TypeScript
    * PHP
    * Rust
    * Python
* Pattern syntax: You can now introduce metavariables from parts of regular expressions using `pattern-regex`, by using regular expressions with [named capturing groups](https://www.regular-expressions.info/named.html). Such capture group metavariables must be explicitly named.
    * For example, the pattern:
       ```
       pattern-regex: "foo-(?P<X>.*)"
       ```
       binds what is matched by the capture group `?P<X>` to the metavariable `$X`, which can be used as normal.
    * `pattern-regex` patterns with capture groups, such as `pattern-regex: "(.*)"` still introduce metavariables of the form `$1`, `$2`, and so on, but this should be considered deprecated behavior, and that functionality will be taken away in a future release. Named capturing groups should be used instead. ([#8115](https://github.com/returntocorp/semgrep/pull/8115))
* Rule syntax: Error messages for rule parsing have been improved. For instance, parsing now complains if you miss a hyphen in a list of patterns, or if you try to give a string to `patterns` or pattern-either. ([#8098](https://github.com/returntocorp/semgrep/pull/8098)).
* JavaScript and TypeScript ([#8112](https://github.com/returntocorp/semgrep/pull/8112)): Now, patterns of records with ellipses, such as:
  ```
  { $X: ... }
  ```
  Properly match to records of anonymous functions, such as:
  ```
  {
    func: () => { return 1; }
  }
  ```
* Matching: Writing a pattern which is a sequence of statements, such as
  ```
  foo();
  ...
  bar();
  ```
  now allows matching to sequences of statements within objects, classes, and related language constructs, in all languages ([#8052](https://github.com/returntocorp/semgrep/pull/8052)).
* Added support for post-PEP 614 decorators.([#8100](https://github.com/returntocorp/semgrep/pull/8100)). Now Semgrep accepts decorators of the form `@ named_expr_test NEWLINE`, for example with the pattern:
  ```
  lambda $X:$X($X):
  #match 1
  @omega := lambda ha:ha(ha)
  def func():
    return None
  
  #match 2
  @omega[lambda a:a(a)].a.b.c.f("wahoo")
  def fun():
    return None
  ```
* Constant propagation is now applied to stack array declarations in C. A pattern `$TYPE $NAME[101];` now produces two matches in the following snippet ([#8085](https://github.com/returntocorp/semgrep/pull/8085)):
```
int main() {

  int bad_len = 101;
  /* match 1 */
  int arr1[101];
  /* match 2 */
  int arr2[bad_len];
  return 0;
}
``` 
* Solidity: Allow metavariables for versions. This can be used for the pragma directive in Solidity. For example: `>= $VER;` ([#8105](https://github.com/returntocorp/semgrep/pull/8105/files))
* PHP ([#8107](https://github.com/returntocorp/semgrep/pull/8107)): Added support for parsing patterns of the form: `#[Attr1], #[Attr2]` in code such as:
  ```
  #[Attr1]
  #[Attr2]
  function test ()
  {
      echo "Test";
  }
  ```
Previously, to match against multiple attributes it was required to write `#[Attr1, Attr2]`.
* Added lone decorators as a valid Python Semgrep pattern ([#8047](https://github.com/returntocorp/semgrep/pull/8047)), so for example `$NAME($X)` now generates two seperate findings here:
  ```
  @hello("world")
  @hi("semgrep!")
  def shift():
    return "left!"
  ```
* JavaScript and TypeScript: Patterns for class properties can now have the static and async modifiers.
For instance:
  ```
  @Foo(...)
  async bar(...) {
    ...
  }
  ```
or
  ```
  @Foo(...)
  static bar(...) {
    ...
  }
  ``` 
* Semgrep VS Code extension: Semgrep Language Server now supports multi-folder workspaces. ([#7966](https://github.com/returntocorp/semgrep/pull/7966))
* New pre-commit hook semgrep-ci to use CI rules in pre-commit, which uses rules from the Policies page and blocks PRs when detecting findings from rules in Block mode ([#7973](https://github.com/returntocorp/semgrep/pull/7973)).
* Added support for date comparison and functionality to get current date. This requires date strings to be in the format "yyyy-mm-dd" ([#8053](https://github.com/returntocorp/semgrep/pull/8053)).

### Changed

* The output of `--debug` is now less verbose by default. It now shows internal warning and error messages. Alternatively, use `--verbose` for detailed scan information.
* Updated the maximum number of cores autodetected to 16 to prevent overloading on large machines when users do not specify number of jobs themselves (pa-2807)
* taint-mode: Several improvements to taint_assume_safe_{booleans,numbers} options. Most notably, we will now use type info provided by explicit type casts, and we will also use const-prop info to infer types. (pa-2777)

### Fixed

* Taint analysis: Improve handling of dataflow for tainted value propagation in class field definitions
This change resolves an issue where dataflow was not correctly accounted for when tainted values flowed through field definitions in class/object definitions. For instance, in Kotlin or Scala, singleton objects are commonly used to encapsulate executable logic, where each field definition behaves like a statement during object initialization. In order to handle this scenario, we have introduced an additional step to analyze a sequence of field definitions as a sequence of statements for taint analysis. This enhancement allows us to accurately track tainted values during object initialization. (gh-7742)
* Allow any characters in file paths used to create dotted rule IDs. File path characters that aren't allowed in rule IDs are simply removed. For example, a rule whose ID is my-rule found in the file hello/@world/rules.yaml becomes hello.world.my-rule. (gh-8057)
* Diff-aware scans now work when the git state isn't clean. (pa-2795)
* Fixed a typing issue with Go. Previously, the pattern `($VAR : *tau.rho).$F()` wouldn't produce a match in the following:
  ```
  func f() {
    i_1 := &tau.rho{}
    i_2 := new(tau.rho)
  
    i_1.shift() //miss one
    i_2.left()  //miss two
  
    return 101
  }
  ```
but now Semgrep doesn't miss those two findings. (gh-6733)

## Semgrep Cloud Platform

### Added

* You can now rename repositories.
* You can now select a default RBAC (role-based access control) role.
* The Policies page is now the default page used to manage rules.

### Changed

* For organizations with multiple GitHub organizations, you can now add organizations as a newline separated list.

### Removed

* The **Disliked** column has been removed from the Dashboard.

## Semgrep Code

### Added
* Semgrep Pro engine taint-mode for Java: Semgrep can now relate Java properties and their corresponding getters/setters even when these are autogenerated, so the actual getters/setters are not declared in the sources. 
* Semgrep Code findings page now includes security category tag.
* Added a hide or show toggle for rules with no associated findings.
* Users can now specify which rule boards to add rules to.
* Enable user to select a range of cards at once while keeping Shift down.

### Fixed
* Cleaned up and updated wording and UI to reflect the updated Team tier. 

## Semgrep Supply Chain

* Semgrep Supply Chain now supports pNPm lockfiles (`pnpm-lock.yaml`) version 8 and above.
* CLI scans now include the following metadata:
    * Severity
    * Recommended version to upgrade a dependency to

## Semgrep Assistant (beta)

* Semgrep Assistant is now in public beta and can be enabled by anyone by installing a new GitHub app via the Settings page.
* A new setting allows you to configure where Semgrep Assistant's triage suggestions appear. You can receive Semgrep Assistant messages within your Slack or GitHub PR comments.
* A new setting allows setting a minimum confidence level required because autofix suggestions are posted by Assistant.

## Documentation updates

### Added
* The [Semgrep knowledge base](/kb/) is now live. The knowledge base hosts the following information:
    * Troubleshooting articles
    * How-to guides and tutorials for specific or custom user needs
