---
slug: May-2024
hide_title: true
description: >-
  Release notes include the changes, fixes, and additions in specific versions of Semgrep.
toc_max_heading_level: 3
title: May 2024
tags:
  - Release notes
---

# Semgrep release notes for May 2024

## 🌐 Semgrep AppSec Platform

### Added

- **Semgrep managed scanning** is now in public beta. It enables you to scan with Semgrep on any GitHub-hosted repository without the need to change existing CI/CD configurations.
  - Managed scanning is crucial to organizations with hundreds or thousands of repositories. Read the [<i class="fa-regular fa-file-lines"></i> docs](/deployment/managed-scanning) or the [<i class="fas fa-external-link fa-xs"></i> blog post](https://semgrep.dev/blog/2024/rapidly-deploy-code-scans-with-semgrep-managed-scanning).

### Changed

- Improved the onboarding experience when scanning with Semgrep on a remote repository.
- **Projects page**: Improved the **Can't find your project?** tooltip with more troubleshooting advice.
  - The **Sync projects** button has been moved to the **Can't find your project** tooltip.
- Improved Jira integration and workflow. Jira tickets can now be created for Supply Chain findings, and provide better ticket summaries <!-- 14334 --> and descriptions. <!-- 14253 -->
  - The Jira integration is in a private beta. See the [<i class="fa-regular fa-file-lines"></i> Jira documentation](/semgrep-appsec-platform/jira) to learn how it works and how to gain access to the beta.
- **Editor and Playground**: various improvements to structure mode, including the addition of tooltips to aid in rule writing, and bug fixes

## 💻 Semgrep Code

### Added

- **Code search** is now in beta. Code search allows you to test a Semgrep rule by running it against one or more GitHub repositories or projects instead of just a few lines of test code. Its results highlight all instances of matching code in those target repositories, allowing you to see whether your rule works as intended or not.
- When reviewing items on Semgrep AppSec Platform's **Findings** page, the **Pro findings** filter allows you to filter for findings identified using Semgrep Pro rules, as well as findings originating from Pro Engine analysis; if Semgrep identifies a finding as the result of Pro Engine analysis, or interfile and interprocedural analysis, it's included by this filter.
- Added two new triage statuses: **Reviewing**, which indicates the findings that require more investigation to determine what the next steps should be, and **Fixing**, which indicate findings for which a Jira ticket has been created.

### Changed

- Semgrep AppSec Platform's **Findings** page now sorts items using the following criteria:
  1. Severity
  2. Findings generated by custom rules
  3. Findings generated by [Pro rules](/semgrep-code/pro-rules)
  4. Issue count in descending order
  5. Findings ID in ascending order

### Fixed

- When using `semgrep --test --json` to run tests against your rules and obtain the results in JSON format, Semgrep now reports the following issues to the `config_missing_fixtests` field in the JSON output for all rules in a file (not just the first rule):
  - Rule files containing `fix:` without the corresponding `.fixed` test file
  - Rule files using `fix-regex:` without the corresponding `.fixed` test file
- Fixed an issue where Dockerfiles lacking a trailing newline character at the end of the file caused a segmentation fault.
- Fixed an issue with the improper handling of unicode characters caused Semgrep to crash.
- Fixed an issue where interfile tainting missed a constant propagation phase, leading to the omission of true positives in some cases during interfile analysis.
- Fixed an issue where Semgrep ignored YAML tags instead of matching them correctly.
- Fixed an issue where findings identified in an earlier scan aren't marked as fixed when they no longer appear in later scans.
- Fixed an issue where patterns flagged as disabled were not disabled when switching from structure mode to advanced mode in the Semgrep Editor.
- **CLI**:
  - When outputting Semgrep results in SARIF format, Semgrep now adds the **security** tag when CWE metadata is present in the rule.
  - Fixed an issue where rules with `metavariable-type` do not show up in the SARIF output

## ⛓️  Semgrep Supply Chain


### Added

- Added public Supply Chain APIs. [<i class="fas fa-external-link fa-xs"></i> Read the documentation](https://semgrep.dev/api/v1/docs/#tag/Finding/operation/semgrep_app.core_exp.findings.handlers.issue.openapi_list_recent_issues).
- Added [lockfile-only support](/supported-languages/#semgrep-supply-chain) for the **Hex package manager** for Elixir codebases.
- Added two new triage statuses: **Reviewing**, which indicates the findings that require more investigation to determine what the next steps should be, and **Fixing**, which indicate findings for which a Jira ticket has been created.

### Changed

- The Supply Chain UI has been improved for consistency across Semgrep products. With these changes, users are now able to easily manage SCA, SAST, and secret findings. The Supply Chain UI updates provide the following workflow improvements:
  - Grouping vulnerabilities by rule
  - Bulk triaging of findings
  - Comprehensive filtering
  - A unified API for findings across Semgrep Code and Semgrep Supply Chain
- License policy
- The **Supply Chain > Settings** page has been renamed to **License configuration**.

### Fixed

- **Elixir**: Fixed a bug in the `mix.lock` parser where it failed on a Python `None` error and added a handler for arbitrary exceptions during lockfile processing.
- Fixed an issue where upgrade-only SCA rules without patterns could not be validated.

## 🤖 Semgrep Assistant

### Changed

- Autofix results older than six months are now re-analyzed and updated.
- Assistant displays guidance information on how to fix an issue, even if there is no autofix, or code, suggestion present.

### Fixed

- Fixed issue with Assistant license check issue causing rate limiting errors.
- Fixed an issue where users couldn't toggle on Semgrep Assistant with only GitLab connected as the source code manager.
- Fixed an issue where findings that had been auto-triaged weren't analyzed, leading to lack of remediation guidance from Semgrep.
- Fixed an issue where Assistant suggested actions for findings that were ignored.

## 🔐 Semgrep Secrets

### Added

- Added support for AWS validator syntax.

### Changed

- **CLI**: The deprecated `--beta-testing-secrets-enabled` flag is removed. Use `--secrets` instead.

### Fixed

- Fixed an issue where the `--historical-secrets` flag was implemented as an option in the output formats group instead of the Pro options group, sometimes causing scans to fail.

## 📝 Documentation and knowledge base

- Update to docs homepage <!-- 1552 -->
- SSC supported languages
- Infra bugfixes related to terms
- Monorepo example <!-- 1551 -->
- Reorganize sidebar <!-- 1553 -->
- Updated PageObject template - we now provide the last time a doc was updated <!-- 1550 -->
- Zero config scanning
- Query console
- Update Jira docs
- Update credit card information <!-- 1534 -->
- Scan for secrets <!-- 1570 -->
- Transition to interfile scanning preferred over Pro Engine (if not mentioned last month) <!-- 1555 -->
- Various infrastructure updates <!-- 1542 -->
- Semgrep editor docs

## 🔧 Semgrep OSS Engine

- The following versions of Semgrep OSS Engine were released in May 2024:

- [<i class="fas fa-external-link fa-xs"></i>1.71.0](https://github.com/semgrep/semgrep/releases/tag/v1.71.0)
- [<i class="fas fa-external-link fa-xs"></i>1.72.0](https://github.com/semgrep/semgrep/releases/tag/v1.72.0)
- [<i class="fas fa-external-link fa-xs"></i>1.73.0](https://github.com/semgrep/semgrep/releases/tag/v1.73.0)
- [<i class="fas fa-external-link fa-xs"></i>1.74.0](https://github.com/semgrep/semgrep/releases/tag/v1.74.0)
