src/components/procedure/_platform-add-repo.md, before:

Adding a repository from GitHub or GitLab enables Semgrep Cloud Platform to perform many of its core features, such as the ability to record, triage, and manage findings.

:::info Prerequisite
A GitHub or GitLab SaaS repository associated with your account.
:::

To add a repository from GitHub or GitLab, follow these steps:

1. Ensure you are signed in to Semgrep Cloud Platform.
2. Click **[Projects](https://semgrep.dev/orgs/-/projects)** on the left sidebar.
3. Optional: For **GitHub Actions**. If you do not see the repository you want to add, adjust [GitHub Application's Repository Access](https://github.com/settings/installations) configuration. See [Detecting GitHub repositories](#detecting-github-repositories) for more information.
4. Click **Scan new project**, and then click **Run scan in CI**.
5. Select which CI provider for Semgrep to integrate with.
6. Follow the instructions displayed on Semgrep Cloud Platform page for your particular CI provider.

You have now added a repository to Semgrep Cloud Platform.

Commit message:

Post-launch cleanup, better separation for SCP and Semgrep Code (#960)
* removed developer feedback, moved comparison table, semgrep code getting started doc is for all tiers

* display support for bitbucket

* updated info in scp getting started to be more accurate

* update wording to latest in app

* updated tip on testing ci vars

* added note about detecting pr closing automatically only available in github

* include bitbucket as a repository that can be scanned

* updated with some suggestions

* removed last trace of developer feedback and replaced it with user management

src/components/procedure/_platform-add-repo.md, after:

Adding a repository from GitHub, GitLab, or BitBucket enables Semgrep Cloud Platform to perform many of its core features, such as the ability to record, triage, and manage findings.

:::info Prerequisite
* **For GitHub or GitLab SaaS users:** A GitHub or GitLab SaaS repository associated with your account.
* **For BitBucket SaaS users:** A BitBucket repository and sufficient permissions to edit a BitBucket Pipeline and add repository variables.
:::

To add a repository from GitHub, GitLab, or BitBucket, follow these steps:

1. Ensure you are signed in to Semgrep Cloud Platform.
2. Click **[Projects](https://semgrep.dev/orgs/-/projects)** on the left sidebar.
3. Optional: For **GitHub Actions**. If you do not see the repository you want to add, adjust [GitHub Application's Repository Access](https://github.com/settings/installations) configuration. See [Detecting GitHub repositories](#detecting-github-repositories) for more information.
4. Click **Scan new project**, and then click **Run scan in CI**.
5. Select which CI provider for Semgrep to integrate with.
6. Follow the instructions displayed on Semgrep Cloud Platform page for your particular CI provider.

You have now added a repository to Semgrep Cloud Platform. A scan begins automatically after adding a new repository.
