src/components/procedure/_remove-ruleset.mdx, before:

To **disable a ruleset** from the Policies page:

1. In Semgrep Cloud Platform, click **Rules > [Policies](https://semgrep.dev/orgs/-/board)**.
2. From the **Ruleset** drop-down box, click the ruleset to remove.
3. Click the <i class="fas fa-check-square"></i> **Matching rules**.
4. Click **Edit > Disabled**.

:::info
- When you disable a rule, all previous findings generated by that rule are still retained.
:::

You can also **remove a rule** through the Findings page in both **Group by rule** and **No grouping** views. 

Follow these steps to remove a rule in the **Group by rule** view:

1. Go to the Semgrep Cloud Platform [Findings](https://semgrep.dev/orgs/-/findings?tab=open) page.
1. Next to a finding with status **Open**, click **<i class="fa-solid fa-window-restore"></i> Details**.
1. Click **Open > Remove rule**.
1. Click the **Remove from Rule Board** checkbox.
1. Click **Ignore**.

To remove a rule in the **No grouping** view, perform the following steps:

1. Go to the Semgrep Cloud Platform [Findings](https://semgrep.dev/orgs/-/findings?tab=open) page.
1. Next to a finding with status **Open**, click **Open > Remove rule > Remove from Rule Board**.
1. Click **Ignore**.

Commit message:

URLs and bits and bobs rule board -> policies

src/components/procedure/_remove-ruleset.mdx, after:

To **disable a ruleset** from the Policies page:

1. In Semgrep Cloud Platform, click **Rules > [Policies](https://semgrep.dev/orgs/-/policies)**.
2. From the **Ruleset** drop-down box, click the ruleset to remove.
3. Click the <i class="fas fa-check-square"></i> **Matching rules**.
4. Click **Change modes > Disabled**.

:::info
- When you disable a rule, all previous findings generated by that rule are still retained.
:::

You can also **disable a rule** through the Findings page in both **Group by rule** and **No grouping** views. 

Follow these steps to remove a rule in the **Group by rule** view:

1. Go to the Semgrep Cloud Platform [Findings](https://semgrep.dev/orgs/-/findings?tab=open) page.
1. Next to a finding with status **Open**, click **<i class="fa-solid fa-window-restore"></i> Details**.
1. Click **Open > Disable rule...**.
1. Click the **Disable from policy** checkbox.
1. Click **Ignore**.

To remove a rule in the **No grouping** view, perform the following steps:

1. Go to the Semgrep Cloud Platform [Findings](https://semgrep.dev/orgs/-/findings?tab=open) page.
1. Next to a finding with status **Open**, click **Open > Disable rule > Disable from policy**.
1. Click **Ignore**.
