docs/semgrep-cloud-platform/slack.md, before:

---
slug: slack-notifications 
append_help_link: true
title: Slack
hide_title: true
description: "Receive Semgrep findings in your Slack workspaces."
tags:
    - Semgrep Cloud Platform
    - Team & Enterprise Tier
---

import MoreHelp from "/src/components/MoreHelp"

<ul id="tag__badge-list">
{
Object.entries(frontMatter).filter(
    frontmatter => frontmatter[0] === 'tags')[0].pop().map(
    (value) => <li class='tag__badge-item'>{value}</li> )
}
</ul>

# Receiving Slack notifications

<!-- When referring to the Slack integration, let's consistently call it the "Semgrep Slack app" (app in lower case). This is consistent with the terminology used by Slack (they refer to these integrations as apps in their product pages. It also makes sure that the user knows what "app" we're referring to.

Prefer "Semgrep Slack app" over "Semgrep Slack integration" or "Slack integration" or any other variant. -->

<!-- <ProcedureIntegrateSlack /> -->

:::info Prerequisites
* You must be a Slack **Workspace Owner** to set up the Semgrep Slack app. 
:::

The Semgrep Slack app enables Semgrep Cloud Platform to notify you of new findings after every scan. By receiving notifications within your Slack workspace, developers and security engineers are able to see findings without leaving their current environment. This can lessen the friction between detecting a finding, triaging it, and resolving it.

You can select which channels in your Slack workspace will receive findings. You can also choose to receive findings only for certain repositories (projects) or **Rule Modes**. For example, you can choose to receive notifications only for findings generated by rules from the Blocking Rule Mode.

## Installing the Semgrep Slack App

To install the Semgrep Slack app, follow these steps:

1. In [Semgrep Cloud Platform](https://semgrep.dev/login), go to **Settings** > **[Integrations](https://semgrep.dev/orgs/-/settings/integrations)**.
2. On the **[Integrations](https://semgrep.dev/orgs/-/settings/integrations)** page, click **Add Integration** (or **Setup First Integration** if this is your first integration), and then select **Slack**.
3. Click **Allow**.

## Setting up notifications for findings in Slack

To set up or subscribe to notifications for findings in your Slack workspace, perform the following steps:

1. In your Slack workspace, find or create a channel for Semgrep notifications.
2. In the selected Slack channel, enter the following slash command: `/semgrep_subscribe`.
3. Optional: Enter the name of a specific project after `/semgrep_subscribe` to receive findings for that specific project only, for example, `/semgrep_subscribe acme-corp/vulnerable-repo`. The project must be entered in the following format:
    <br />
    <code>/semgrep_subscribe <span className="placeholder">ACCOUNT_NAME/REPOSITORY_NAME</span></code>
4. Choose an organization in the list under **Select target organization**. The dialog box expands with additional options.
    ![Semgrep Slack app dialog box for subscribing to notifications](/img/semgrep-slack-subscribe.png "Semgrep Slack app dialog box for subscribing to notifications")
5. Optional: Set up additional filters.
    1. For Semgrep users that receive both Semgrep Code findings and Semgrep Supply Chain vulnerabilities, you can select **target scan types** to subscribe to either Semgrep Code, Semgrep Supply Chain, or both.
    2. Select any number of policies to receive findings for under the **Selected Policies** field. By default, you are subscribed to all policies, including the Monitor policy. This can potentially result in a noisy message.
6. Click **Subscribe**. If you did not specify a project after `/semgrep_subscribe`, the channel is subscribed to findings from all your repositories in Semgrep Cloud Platform.
7. Optional: To set up Slack notifications for additional workspaces, repeat steps 1 to 6. The Semgrep Slack integration is set up on a per-workspace basis.

You have successfully set up notifications for Semgrep findings. The Semgrep Slack app reports new findings after every scan but does not report findings that were previously discovered.

:::tip Suggested workflow
In your Slack workspace, create separate channels for either policies, repositories (projects), or types of findings depending on your business or development need. This ensures that developers receive only findings that are relevant to them. 
:::

![Message from Semgrep Slack app consolidating findings after a scan](/img/slack-findings-message.png#bordered "Message from Semgrep Slack app consolidating findings after a scan")
**Figure** A sample Slack message with Semgrep findings.

## Removing notifications for findings in Slack

:::note
This operation removes or unsubscribes a channel from notifications. To uninstall the Semgrep Slack App, refer to [Uninstalling the Semgrep Slack App from your Slack workspace
](#uninstalling-the-semgrep-slack-app-from-your-slack-workspace).
:::

To remove or unsubscribe to notifications:

1. In Slack, enter the channel that you want to unsubscribe from Semgrep findings.
2. Type `/semgrep_unsubscribe`.
3. Select the target organization to unsubscribe from.
4. Click **Unsubscribe**.

You have unsubscribed from Semgrep finding notifications for that particular channel.

## Changing Slack notification settings

You can customize your notification settings at any time through the **Semgrep App Home** in your Slack workplace.

To view the Semgrep App Home:

1. In your Slack workspace,  click **+ Add apps**, which can be found in the sidebar under the **Apps** header.
2. Click **Semgrep**. The Semgrep app appears as a button on the sidebar.

To change the settings:

1. In your Slack workspace, click **Semgrep** under **Apps** in the Slack sidebar. This displays the **Semgrep App Home**.
2. Click the **three-dot menu** of the channel to update.
3. Click **Manage filters**.

## Uninstalling the Semgrep Slack App from your Slack workspace

:::caution
This removes **all** Semgrep notifications in **all** channels in your Slack workspace. 
:::

To uninstall the Semgrep Slack App entirely from your Slack workspace, perform the following steps:

1. In [Semgrep Cloud Platform](https://semgrep.dev/login), go to **Settings** > **[Integrations](https://semgrep.dev/orgs/-/settings/integrations)**.
2. On the **[Integrations](https://semgrep.dev/orgs/-/settings/integrations)** page, find the Slack integration you want to remove.
3. Click **Remove integration** > **Remove**.

## Troubleshooting

### Not receiving any findings

The following list describes possible ways to troubleshoot findings not appearing in your Slack workspace:

* Check if you have successfully set up your notifications.
* Check if your most recent scan has findings to send.
* Check your filters.
* Check if the channel is private. You must add the Semgrep App to the private channel to subscribe to notifications.

### Check notifications

To check that your notifications are set up, receive a test message from Semgrep:

1. In your Slack workspace, click **Semgrep** under **Apps** in the Slack sidebar.
2. Click the **three-dot menu** > **Send Test Notification**.

### Check your filters

If you have set up any filter, such as filtering for a specific policy or project, all conditions of that filter must be present for the notification to be sent. Review your filters by following the steps in [Changing Slack notification settings](#changing-slack-notification-settings).

### Permissions not up-to-date

You may receive a message from Semgrep Slack app stating that your token does not have up-to-date permissions. Clicking the link provided in the message to update the permissions typically resolves this issue.

However, if after updating the token, you still receive the same message, perform the following steps to revoke and refresh your access token:

1. In your Slack workspace, click **Semgrep** under **Apps** in the Slack sidebar.
2. Click Uninstall. This revokes your token.
3. Go to Semgrep Cloud Platform > Settings > Integrations.
4. Find the Slack entry for the workspace you revoked in step 2 and click **Refresh Token**.
5. Follow the steps in the authentication flow to complete the token refresh.

You have refreshed your access token and updated your permissions.

### Fixing `dispatch_failed` error

There are many possible causes for this error. Try the following fixes:

* Re-enter your last command or operation after a few minutes.
* Uninstall, and then reinstall your Semgrep Slack integration.

### Fixing `operation_timeout` error

This error occasionally appears due to connection or service issues. To fix this issue, retry your last command or operation after a few minutes.

## Slack permissions 

The following table describes the purpose for each permission required to use the Semgrep Slack app. 

<table>
  <tr>
   <td><strong>Permission</strong>
   </td>
   <td><strong>Slack description</strong>
   </td>
   <td><strong>Purpose</strong>
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td><strong><a href="https://api.slack.com/scopes/app_mentions:read">app_mentions:read</a></strong>
   </td>
   <td>View messages that directly mention <code>@Semgrep</code> in conversations that the app is in.
   </td>
   <td>Enables the Semgrep Slack app to respond when users mention it in the chat.
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td><strong><a href="https://api.slack.com/scopes/channels:read">channels:read</a></strong> 
   </td>
   <td>View basic information about public channels in a workspace.
   </td>
   <td>Basic channel information such as <code>channel_id</code> is used to ensure that Semgrep findings (results) are sent to the appropriate channel.
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td><strong><a href="https://api.slack.com/scopes/chat:write">chat:write</a></strong>
   </td>
   <td>Send messages as <code>@Semgrep</code>.
   </td>
   <td>Enables the Semgrep Slack app to send findings to channels.
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td><strong><a href="https://api.slack.com/scopes/chat:write.customize">chat:write.customize</a></strong>
   </td>
   <td>Send messages as <code>@Semgrep</code> with a customized username and avatar.
   </td>
   <td>Helps users identify Semgrep Slack app messages through the use of an image and username.
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td><strong><a href="https://api.slack.com/scopes/chat:write.public">chat:write.public</a></strong>
   </td>
   <td>Send messages to channels <code>@Semgrep</code> isn't a member of.
   </td>
   <td>Enables users to invoke Semgrep Slack app features in any public channel using the slash command.
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td><strong><a href="https://api.slack.com/scopes/commands">commands</a></strong>
   </td>
   <td>Add shortcuts or slash commands that people can use.
   </td>
   <td>Enables the Semgrep Slack app to register custom slash commands such as <code>/semgrep_subscribe</code> used for notification subscription.
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td><strong><a href="https://api.slack.com/scopes/emoji:read">emoji:read</a></strong>
   </td>
   <td>View custom emoji in a workspace.
   </td>
   <td>Allows Semgrep to support a workspace's custom emojis.
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td><strong><a href="https://api.slack.com/scopes/im:write">im:write</a></strong>
   </td>
   <td>Start direct messages with people.
   </td>
   <td>Allows users to interact with the Semgrep Slack app and use the slash commands in direct messages.
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td><strong><a href="https://api.slack.com/scopes/links:write">links:write</a></strong>
   </td>
   <td>Show previews of URLs in messages.
   </td>
   <td>Enables Semgrep Slack app to include links in messages.
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td><strong><a href="https://api.slack.com/scopes/users:read">users:read</a></strong>
   </td>
   <td>View profile details about people in a workspace.
   </td>
   <td>Enables Semgrep Slack app to correctly address users in messages.
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td><strong><a href="https://api.slack.com/scopes/users:write">users:write</a></strong>
   </td>
   <td>Set presence for Semgrep.
   </td>
   <td>Used by the Semgrep Slack app to interact with the workspace and enables users to add the Semgrep Slack app to relevant channels.
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td><strong><a href="https://api.slack.com/scopes/workflow.steps:execute">workflow.steps:execute</a></strong>
   </td>
   <td>Add steps that people can use in Workflow Builder.
   </td>
   <td>Enables Semgrep to make use of modals and drop-down boxes when a user creates or updates their notifications.
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td><strong><a href="https://api.slack.com/scopes/groups:read">groups:read</a></strong>
   </td>
   <td>View basic information about private channels that your Slack app has been added to.
   </td>
   <td>Semgrep Slack app uses <code>channels_id_changed</code> to update its notifications configuration if the channel that receives findings is updated. This ensures that you are able to receive findings ever renaming a channel.
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td><strong><a href="https://api.slack.com/scopes/team:read">team:read</a></strong>
   </td>
   <td>View the name, email domain, and icon for workspaces your slack app is connected to.
   </td>
   <td>Semgrep Slack app uses <code>team_name_changed</code> to update its notifications configuration if the team name is updated. This ensures that you are able to receive findings notifications even after renaming your team.
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td><strong><a href="https://api.slack.com/scopes/channels:read">channels:read</a></strong>
   </td>
   <td>View basic information about public channels in a workspace.
   </td>
   <td>Enables Semgrep Slack app to monitor if channels that receive Semgrep findings have been deleted or archived.
   </td>
  </tr>
</table>

<!--
Unused and removed for now:
  <tr>
   <td><strong><a href="https://api.slack.com/scopes/users.profile:read">users.profile:read</a></strong>
   </td>
   <td>View people in a workspace.
   </td>
   <td>Will be used to know the status of the users before interacting or sending out notifications.
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td><strong><a href="https://api.slack.com/scopes/reactions:write">reactions:write</a></strong>
   </td>
   <td>Add and edit emoji reactions.
   </td>
   <td>Will be used by Semgrep app to add a reaction to the messages that it sends.
   </td>
  </tr>

-->

#### Additional resources
* https://api.slack.com/apps
* https://api.slack.com/messaging/webhooks#enable_webhooks

<MoreHelp />

Commit message:

Updated slack.md to include instructions for setting up notifications in private Slack channels (#1440)
A few customers were confused about setting up notifications for private Slack channels. Including the instructions in the set up section can help

docs/semgrep-cloud-platform/slack.md, after:

---
slug: slack-notifications 
append_help_link: true
title: Slack
hide_title: true
description: "Receive Semgrep findings in your Slack workspaces."
tags:
    - Semgrep Cloud Platform
    - Team & Enterprise Tier
---

import MoreHelp from "/src/components/MoreHelp"

<ul id="tag__badge-list">
{
Object.entries(frontMatter).filter(
    frontmatter => frontmatter[0] === 'tags')[0].pop().map(
    (value) => <li class='tag__badge-item'>{value}</li> )
}
</ul>

# Receiving Slack notifications

<!-- When referring to the Slack integration, let's consistently call it the "Semgrep Slack app" (app in lower case). This is consistent with the terminology used by Slack (they refer to these integrations as apps in their product pages. It also makes sure that the user knows what "app" we're referring to.

Prefer "Semgrep Slack app" over "Semgrep Slack integration" or "Slack integration" or any other variant. -->

<!-- <ProcedureIntegrateSlack /> -->

:::info Prerequisites
* You must be a Slack **Workspace Owner** to set up the Semgrep Slack app. 
:::

The Semgrep Slack app enables Semgrep Cloud Platform to notify you of new findings after every scan. By receiving notifications within your Slack workspace, developers and security engineers are able to see findings without leaving their current environment. This can lessen the friction between detecting a finding, triaging it, and resolving it.

You can select which channels in your Slack workspace will receive findings. You can also choose to receive findings only for certain repositories (projects) or **Rule Modes**. For example, you can choose to receive notifications only for findings generated by rules from the Blocking Rule Mode.

## Installing the Semgrep Slack App

To install the Semgrep Slack app, follow these steps:

1. In [Semgrep Cloud Platform](https://semgrep.dev/login), go to **Settings** > **[Integrations](https://semgrep.dev/orgs/-/settings/integrations)**.
2. On the **[Integrations](https://semgrep.dev/orgs/-/settings/integrations)** page, click **Add Integration** (or **Setup First Integration** if this is your first integration), and then select **Slack**.
3. Click **Allow**.

## Setting up notifications for findings in Slack

To set up or subscribe to notifications for findings in your Slack workspace, perform the following steps:

1. In your Slack workspace, find or create a channel for Semgrep notifications.
2. In the selected Slack channel, enter the following slash command: `/semgrep_subscribe`. For private channels, first invite the Semgrep app by typing `@Semgrep` in the channel, then use the `/semgrep_subscribe` command to start receiving notifications.
3. Optional: Enter the name of a specific project after `/semgrep_subscribe` to receive findings for that specific project only, for example, `/semgrep_subscribe acme-corp/vulnerable-repo`. The project must be entered in the following format:
    <br />
    <code>/semgrep_subscribe <span className="placeholder">ACCOUNT_NAME/REPOSITORY_NAME</span></code>
4. Choose an organization in the list under **Select target organization**. The dialog box expands with additional options.
    ![Semgrep Slack app dialog box for subscribing to notifications](/img/semgrep-slack-subscribe.png "Semgrep Slack app dialog box for subscribing to notifications")
5. Optional: Set up additional filters.
    1. For Semgrep users that receive both Semgrep Code findings and Semgrep Supply Chain vulnerabilities, you can select **target scan types** to subscribe to either Semgrep Code, Semgrep Supply Chain, or both.
    2. Select any number of policies to receive findings for under the **Selected Policies** field. By default, you are subscribed to all policies, including the Monitor policy. This can potentially result in a noisy message.
6. Click **Subscribe**. If you did not specify a project after `/semgrep_subscribe`, the channel is subscribed to findings from all your repositories in Semgrep Cloud Platform.
7. Optional: To set up Slack notifications for additional workspaces, repeat steps 1 to 6. The Semgrep Slack integration is set up on a per-workspace basis.

You have successfully set up notifications for Semgrep findings. The Semgrep Slack app reports new findings after every scan but does not report findings that were previously discovered.

:::tip Suggested workflow
In your Slack workspace, create separate channels for either policies, repositories (projects), or types of findings depending on your business or development need. This ensures that developers receive only findings that are relevant to them. 
:::

![Message from Semgrep Slack app consolidating findings after a scan](/img/slack-findings-message.png#bordered "Message from Semgrep Slack app consolidating findings after a scan")
**Figure** A sample Slack message with Semgrep findings.

## Removing notifications for findings in Slack

:::note
This operation removes or unsubscribes a channel from notifications. To uninstall the Semgrep Slack App, refer to [Uninstalling the Semgrep Slack App from your Slack workspace
](#uninstalling-the-semgrep-slack-app-from-your-slack-workspace).
:::

To remove or unsubscribe to notifications:

1. In Slack, enter the channel that you want to unsubscribe from Semgrep findings.
2. Type `/semgrep_unsubscribe`.
3. Select the target organization to unsubscribe from.
4. Click **Unsubscribe**.

You have unsubscribed from Semgrep finding notifications for that particular channel.

## Changing Slack notification settings

You can customize your notification settings at any time through the **Semgrep App Home** in your Slack workplace.

To view the Semgrep App Home:

1. In your Slack workspace,  click **+ Add apps**, which can be found in the sidebar under the **Apps** header.
2. Click **Semgrep**. The Semgrep app appears as a button on the sidebar.

To change the settings:

1. In your Slack workspace, click **Semgrep** under **Apps** in the Slack sidebar. This displays the **Semgrep App Home**.
2. Click the **three-dot menu** of the channel to update.
3. Click **Manage filters**.

## Uninstalling the Semgrep Slack App from your Slack workspace

:::caution
This removes **all** Semgrep notifications in **all** channels in your Slack workspace. 
:::

To uninstall the Semgrep Slack App entirely from your Slack workspace, perform the following steps:

1. In [Semgrep Cloud Platform](https://semgrep.dev/login), go to **Settings** > **[Integrations](https://semgrep.dev/orgs/-/settings/integrations)**.
2. On the **[Integrations](https://semgrep.dev/orgs/-/settings/integrations)** page, find the Slack integration you want to remove.
3. Click **Remove integration** > **Remove**.

## Troubleshooting

### Not receiving any findings

The following list describes possible ways to troubleshoot findings not appearing in your Slack workspace:

* Check if you have successfully set up your notifications.
* Check if your most recent scan has findings to send.
* Check your filters.
* Check if the channel is private. You must add the Semgrep App to the private channel to subscribe to notifications.

### Check notifications

To check that your notifications are set up, receive a test message from Semgrep:

1. In your Slack workspace, click **Semgrep** under **Apps** in the Slack sidebar.
2. Click the **three-dot menu** > **Send Test Notification**.

### Check your filters

If you have set up any filter, such as filtering for a specific policy or project, all conditions of that filter must be present for the notification to be sent. Review your filters by following the steps in [Changing Slack notification settings](#changing-slack-notification-settings).

### Permissions not up-to-date

You may receive a message from Semgrep Slack app stating that your token does not have up-to-date permissions. Clicking the link provided in the message to update the permissions typically resolves this issue.

However, if after updating the token, you still receive the same message, perform the following steps to revoke and refresh your access token:

1. In your Slack workspace, click **Semgrep** under **Apps** in the Slack sidebar.
2. Click Uninstall. This revokes your token.
3. Go to Semgrep Cloud Platform > Settings > Integrations.
4. Find the Slack entry for the workspace you revoked in step 2 and click **Refresh Token**.
5. Follow the steps in the authentication flow to complete the token refresh.

You have refreshed your access token and updated your permissions.

### Fixing `dispatch_failed` error

There are many possible causes for this error. Try the following fixes:

* Re-enter your last command or operation after a few minutes.
* Uninstall, and then reinstall your Semgrep Slack integration.

### Fixing `operation_timeout` error

This error occasionally appears due to connection or service issues. To fix this issue, retry your last command or operation after a few minutes.

## Slack permissions 

The following table describes the purpose for each permission required to use the Semgrep Slack app. 

<table>
  <tr>
   <td><strong>Permission</strong>
   </td>
   <td><strong>Slack description</strong>
   </td>
   <td><strong>Purpose</strong>
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td><strong><a href="https://api.slack.com/scopes/app_mentions:read">app_mentions:read</a></strong>
   </td>
   <td>View messages that directly mention <code>@Semgrep</code> in conversations that the app is in.
   </td>
   <td>Enables the Semgrep Slack app to respond when users mention it in the chat.
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td><strong><a href="https://api.slack.com/scopes/channels:read">channels:read</a></strong> 
   </td>
   <td>View basic information about public channels in a workspace.
   </td>
   <td>Basic channel information such as <code>channel_id</code> is used to ensure that Semgrep findings (results) are sent to the appropriate channel.
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td><strong><a href="https://api.slack.com/scopes/chat:write">chat:write</a></strong>
   </td>
   <td>Send messages as <code>@Semgrep</code>.
   </td>
   <td>Enables the Semgrep Slack app to send findings to channels.
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td><strong><a href="https://api.slack.com/scopes/chat:write.customize">chat:write.customize</a></strong>
   </td>
   <td>Send messages as <code>@Semgrep</code> with a customized username and avatar.
   </td>
   <td>Helps users identify Semgrep Slack app messages through the use of an image and username.
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td><strong><a href="https://api.slack.com/scopes/chat:write.public">chat:write.public</a></strong>
   </td>
   <td>Send messages to channels <code>@Semgrep</code> isn't a member of.
   </td>
   <td>Enables users to invoke Semgrep Slack app features in any public channel using the slash command.
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td><strong><a href="https://api.slack.com/scopes/commands">commands</a></strong>
   </td>
   <td>Add shortcuts or slash commands that people can use.
   </td>
   <td>Enables the Semgrep Slack app to register custom slash commands such as <code>/semgrep_subscribe</code> used for notification subscription.
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td><strong><a href="https://api.slack.com/scopes/emoji:read">emoji:read</a></strong>
   </td>
   <td>View custom emoji in a workspace.
   </td>
   <td>Allows Semgrep to support a workspace's custom emojis.
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td><strong><a href="https://api.slack.com/scopes/im:write">im:write</a></strong>
   </td>
   <td>Start direct messages with people.
   </td>
   <td>Allows users to interact with the Semgrep Slack app and use the slash commands in direct messages.
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td><strong><a href="https://api.slack.com/scopes/links:write">links:write</a></strong>
   </td>
   <td>Show previews of URLs in messages.
   </td>
   <td>Enables Semgrep Slack app to include links in messages.
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td><strong><a href="https://api.slack.com/scopes/users:read">users:read</a></strong>
   </td>
   <td>View profile details about people in a workspace.
   </td>
   <td>Enables Semgrep Slack app to correctly address users in messages.
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td><strong><a href="https://api.slack.com/scopes/users:write">users:write</a></strong>
   </td>
   <td>Set presence for Semgrep.
   </td>
   <td>Used by the Semgrep Slack app to interact with the workspace and enables users to add the Semgrep Slack app to relevant channels.
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td><strong><a href="https://api.slack.com/scopes/workflow.steps:execute">workflow.steps:execute</a></strong>
   </td>
   <td>Add steps that people can use in Workflow Builder.
   </td>
   <td>Enables Semgrep to make use of modals and drop-down boxes when a user creates or updates their notifications.
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td><strong><a href="https://api.slack.com/scopes/groups:read">groups:read</a></strong>
   </td>
   <td>View basic information about private channels that your Slack app has been added to.
   </td>
   <td>Semgrep Slack app uses <code>channels_id_changed</code> to update its notifications configuration if the channel that receives findings is updated. This ensures that you are able to receive findings ever renaming a channel.
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td><strong><a href="https://api.slack.com/scopes/team:read">team:read</a></strong>
   </td>
   <td>View the name, email domain, and icon for workspaces your slack app is connected to.
   </td>
   <td>Semgrep Slack app uses <code>team_name_changed</code> to update its notifications configuration if the team name is updated. This ensures that you are able to receive findings notifications even after renaming your team.
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td><strong><a href="https://api.slack.com/scopes/channels:read">channels:read</a></strong>
   </td>
   <td>View basic information about public channels in a workspace.
   </td>
   <td>Enables Semgrep Slack app to monitor if channels that receive Semgrep findings have been deleted or archived.
   </td>
  </tr>
</table>

<!--
Unused and removed for now:
  <tr>
   <td><strong><a href="https://api.slack.com/scopes/users.profile:read">users.profile:read</a></strong>
   </td>
   <td>View people in a workspace.
   </td>
   <td>Will be used to know the status of the users before interacting or sending out notifications.
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td><strong><a href="https://api.slack.com/scopes/reactions:write">reactions:write</a></strong>
   </td>
   <td>Add and edit emoji reactions.
   </td>
   <td>Will be used by Semgrep app to add a reaction to the messages that it sends.
   </td>
  </tr>

-->

#### Additional resources
* https://api.slack.com/apps
* https://api.slack.com/messaging/webhooks#enable_webhooks

<MoreHelp />
