---
slug: analyze
title: Analyze Code findings
hide_title: true
description: Learn how to analyze Code findings with Multimodal and view its results.
tags:
  - Deployment
  - Semgrep Multimodal
---

# Analyze Semgrep Code findings with Semgrep Multimodal

Once you've [enabled Multimodal](/docs/semgrep-multimodal/getting-started), you can use the **Analyze** button on the [Findings page](/semgrep-code/findings) to trigger all Multimodal functions for Semgrep Code, including Suggested fix, auto-triage, and component tagging, on existing findings.


## Analyze your findings with Multimodal

1. On the [Findings](https://semgrep.dev/orgs/-/findings?tab=open) page, select the findings that you want Multimodal to analyze.
2. Click **Analyze**.
3. In the confirmation dialog that appears, confirm that you want to analyze your findings with Multimodal.

After Multimodal performs these functions, you can see its results on the **Code** page using the **Recommendation** or **Component** filters. When viewing your findings, you can see false positive and true positive recommendations in a finding's **Details** page.

The amount of time required to analyze your findings varies. Before running the analysis, the confirmation dialog provides an estimated wait time.

:::info
- For Team tier users with less than 10 contributors: There is a cap of 50 Multimodal runs per month using the **Analyze** button.
- For Team or Enterprise users with an active subscription: There is a cap of 10,000 Multimodal runs per month using the **Analyze** button. It is rate-limited to 1,000 Multimodal runs per hour.
- For users of any tier: Multimodal runs against pull requests (PRs) and merge requests (MRs) do not count against this limit.
:::


## When Multimodal auto-analyzes findings

Multimodal automatically analyzes new findings from a **full scan** that have **Critical** or **High** severity AND **High** or **Medium** confidence.

On a diff-aware scan, Multimodal auto-analyzes up to a maximum 10 new findings, regardless of severity or confidence. 

:::note
Some findings created before November 2025 may not be auto-analyzed, even if they meet the criteria.
:::

### Request analysis for existing findings

If you want Multimodal analyses for findings that weren't automatically analyzed, you can request them in bulk through Semgrep AppSec Platform. See the [Analyze your findings with Multimodal](#analyze-your-findings-with-assistant) section for details.

If you need assistance with bulk analysis requests or have questions about backfilling analyses for your findings, contact [Semgrep Support](/support).

## View Multimodal recommendations

You can [view all of Semgrep Multimodal's recommendations](/semgrep-code/findings/#filter-findings) by going to the Semgrep **Findings** page and filtering by **Recommendation** or **Component**.

## Provide feedback on Multimodal recommendations

Semgrep Multimodal prompts you for feedback whenever it suggests that a finding is a false positive. Because Multimodal content is generated by large language models (LLMs), your feedback helps the Semgrep team improve Multimodal.

Semgrep Multimodal lets you leave feedback in the following places:

* In Semgrep AppSec Platform: the Multimodal recommendation appears in Semgrep Code's **Finding Details** page under **Activity**, along with **Agree and ignore** or **Disagree** buttons. 
* In Slack notifications: the **Agree** and **Disagree** buttons appear under the Multimodal recommendation message.

==If Semgrep Multimodal labels a finding as a true positive and provides a suggested fix, there is no automated mechanism to leave feedback on this outcome. Feel free to contact [Semgrep Support](/support) to share your thoughts.==
