docs/troubleshooting/semgrep-app.md, before:

---
slug: semgrep-app
description: "Not seeing what you expect in Semgrep AppSec Platform? Follow these troubleshooting steps or find out how to get one-on-one help."
title: Troubleshooting CI
hide_title: true
tags:
    - Deployment
    - Troubleshooting
    - Semgrep AppSec Platform
---

import RetrieveGhaLogs from "/src/components/procedure/_retrieve-gha-logs.mdx"

# Troubleshooting CI scans

This document outlines troubleshooting steps for issues related to **Semgrep scans** in a CI environment. Refer to the following sections if you're seeing results reported on files that have not changed since the last scan, frequent timeouts, or other issues.

For issues on **deployment or CI configuration**, such as adding repositories, see the knowledge base articles in [<i class="fa-regular fa-file-lines"></i> Semgrep in CI](/kb/semgrep-ci).

## Reproducing the issue locally

To aid in debugging, you can reproduce some aspects of your Semgrep CI job locally. This enables you to inspect the logs and behavior through your terminal rather than in your CI provider's interface. Perform the following steps:

1. Run the following command in your terminal:
    ```
    semgrep login
    ```
1. After logging in, return to the CLI and enter the following: <pre class="language-bash">SEMGREP_REPO_NAME=<span className="placeholder">your-organization</span>/<span className="placeholder">repository-name</span> semgrep ci</pre>
    For example, given a GitHub repository `vulncorp/juice-shop`, the full command would be:
    ```
    SEMGREP_REPO_NAME=vulncorp/juice-shop semgrep ci
    ```

<br />
When running `semgrep ci`, Semgrep fetches rules and any other configurations specific to your CI environment. Setting `SEMGREP_REPO_NAME` is optional, but ensures that:
- Results are sent to the same project (repository) in Semgrep AppSec Platform.
- Any project-specific configurations, such as file ignores, are also respected.

## Troubleshooting GitHub

The first piece of information that the team at Semgrep uses are the **GitHub Actions logs**.

<RetrieveGhaLogs />

<!-- Commenting out this but keeping it in the docs because of the package-logs and semgrep ci --verbose steps
```yaml
name: Semgrep
on:
  workflow_dispatch: {}
  pull_request: {}
  push:
    branches:
      - main
      - master
    paths:
      - .github/workflows/semgrep.yml
  schedule:
    # random HH:MM to avoid a load spike on GitHub Actions at 00:00
    - cron: '57 2 * * *'
jobs:
  semgrep:
    name: semgrep/ci
    runs-on: ubuntu-20.04
    env:
      SEMGREP_APP_TOKEN: ${{ secrets.SEMGREP_APP_TOKEN }}
    container:
      image: semgrep/semgrep
    if: (github.actor != 'dependabot[bot]')
    steps:
      - uses: actions/checkout@v3
      # Use this command for the verbose level of debugging.
      - run: semgrep ci --verbose &> semgrep.log
      # Use this command for the Semgrep's highest logging level, --debug.
      # This command may take longer to run.
      # - run: semgrep ci --debug &> semgrep.log
      - name: package-logs
        if: always()
        run: tar czf logs.tgz semgrep.log
      - name: upload-logs
        if: always()
        uses: actions/upload-artifact@v3
        with:
          name: logs.tgz
          path: logs.tgz
          retention-days: 1
```
-->

## Troubleshooting GitLab SAST

GitLab SAST includes and maintains a Semgrep integration called [`semgrep-sast`](https://gitlab.com/gitlab-org/security-products/analyzers/semgrep) for vulnerability finding.

:::tip
Please visit [GitLab’s SAST troubleshooting guide](https://docs.gitlab.com/ee/user/application_security/sast/#troubleshooting) for help with general GitLab SAST issues.
:::

### The `semgrep-sast` CI job is slow

The `semgrep-sast` job should take less than a minute to scan a large project with 50k lines of Python and TypeScript code. If you see worse performance, please [reach out](/support) to the Semgrep maintainers for help with tracking down the cause. Long runtimes are typically caused by just one rule or source code file taking too long. You can also try these solutions:

#### Review global CI job configuration

You might be creating large files or directories in your GitLab CI config's `before_script:`, `cache:`, or similar sections. The `semgrep-sast` job scans all files available to it, not just the source code committed to Git, so if for example you have a cache configuration of

```yaml
cache:
  paths:
  - node_modules/
```

you should prevent those files from being scanned by [disabling caching](https://docs.gitlab.com/ee/ci/caching/#disable-cache-on-specific-jobs) for the `semgrep-sast` job like this:

```yaml
semgrep-sast:
  cache: {}
```

#### Exclude large paths

If you know which large files might be taking too long to scan, you can use [GitLab SAST's path exclusion feature](https://docs.gitlab.com/ee/user/application_security/sast/#vulnerability-filters) to skip files or directories matching given patterns.

- `SAST_EXCLUDED_PATHS: "*.py"` will ignore the paths at:
  `foo.py`, `src/foo.py`, `foo.py/bar.sh`.
- `SAST_EXCLUDED_PATHS: "tests"` will ignore
  `tests/foo.py` as well as `a/b/tests/c/foo.py`.

You can use a comma separated list to ignore multiple patterns: `SAST_EXCLUDED_PATHS: "*.py, tests"` will ignore all of the preceding paths.

### `semgrep-sast` reports false positives or false negatives

If you're not getting results where you should, or you get too many results, the problem might be with the patterns Semgrep scans for.

You can review the search patterns in the [rules directory of the `semgrep-sast` analyzer](https://gitlab.com/gitlab-org/security-products/analyzers/semgrep/-/tree/main/rules) and report issues to the GitLab team. Refer to the [Semgrep rule writing tutorial](https://semgrep.dev/learn) to help better understand these rule files. You can also refer to the [Semgrep Registry](https://semgrep.dev/explore) which is a collection of 2,000+ Semgrep rules curated by Semgrep, Inc.

### `semgrep-sast` crashes, fails, or is otherwise broken

Semgrep prints an error message to explain what went wrong upon crashes, and often also what to do to fix it.

The output of Semgrep is hidden by default, but [GitLab provides a way](https://docs.gitlab.com/ee/user/application_security/sast/#sast-debug-logging) to see it by setting an environment variable:

```yaml
variables:
  SECURE_LOG_LEVEL: "debug"
```

### How to get GitLab assistance

If you’re a GitLab customer and suspect there’s an issue with GitLab, please [contact GitLab support](https://about.gitlab.com/support/) and open a support ticket. Users of GitLab’s free plans should open a thread in the [GitLab Community Forum](https://forum.gitlab.com/).

## Project-specific issues

A **project** is any repository you have added to Semgrep Cloud Platform for scanning. Refer to the following sections for issues in the **Semgrep AppSec Platform > Projects** page.

### If a project reports the last scan "Never started"

This status means that your CI job never authenticated to Semgrep AppSec Platform.

Check your CI provider (such as GitHub Actions) for the latest Semgrep job execution.

#### If you can’t find a Semgrep CI job

The issue is likely with the CI configuration.

- Make sure that the branch you committed a CI job to is included in the list of branches the job is triggered on.
- Make sure that the CI configuration file has valid syntax. Most providers have a tool for checking the syntax of configuration files.

#### If a Semgrep CI job exists

Check the log output for any hints about what the issue is.

- If the logs mention a missing token or an authentication failure, you can get a new token from the [Settings page of Semgrep AppSec Platform](https://semgrep.dev/manage/settings), and set it as `SEMGREP_APP_TOKEN` in your CI provider's secret management UI.
- Alternatively, if this is the first scan after adding a new GitHub repository, and the repository is a fork, check your Actions tab to see if workflows are enabled:
  ![Screenshot of GitHub's Actions tab with workflows disabled](/img/github-workflows-disabled.png)
  - Enable workflows by clicking **I understand my workflows, go ahead and enable them** to allow Semgrep to scan.

### If a project reports the last scan 'Never finished'

This status means that your CI jobs start and authenticate correctly, but fail before completion.

Check your CI provider (such as GitHub Actions) for the log output of the latest Semgrep job execution. In most cases you will see an error message with detailed instructions on what to do.

#### If the job is aborted due to taking too long

Many CI providers have a time limit for how long a job can run. Semgrep CI also aborts itself if it runs for too long. If your CI scans regularly take too long and fail to complete:

- Please [reach out](/support) to the Semgrep team for help with tracking down the cause. Semgrep scans most large projects with hundreds of rules within a few minutes, and long run times are typically caused by just one rule or source code file taking too long.
- To drastically cut run times, you can use Semgrep's diff-aware scanning to skip scanning unchanged files. For more details, see [Semgrep's behavior](/deployment/customize-ci-jobs).
- You can skip scanning large and complex source code files (such as minified JS or generated code) if you know their path by adding a `.semgrepignore` file. See [how to ignore files & directories in Semgrep CI](/ignoring-files-folders-code).
- You can increase Semgrep's own run time limit by setting a <code>semgrep ci --timeout <span className="placeholder"><strong>[SECONDS]</strong></span></code> flag, or by setting a <code>SEMGREP_TIMEOUT=<span className="placeholder"><strong>[SECONDS]</strong></span></code> environment variable.
  - To fully disable the time limit, set this value to `0`.

Commit message:

Update description and troubleshooting for longer scans (#1845)
* Update description and troubleshooting for longer scans

Folks sometimes see this message if a scan is long as well so this clarifies that the scan results will still be accepted if the scan is running.

I removed the last troubleshooting bullet and related statement since they are incorrect. Modifying --timeout only changes how much time Semgrep spends on a rule/file combo. There is no global timeout for Semgrep, only whatever the running system enforces.

* Apply suggestions from TW review

Co-authored-by: Katie Horne <katie.horne@semgrep.com>

* Match usage from heading change

Co-authored-by: Finn Ellis <finn@semgrep.com>

* Commit half of Finn's suggestion :)

---------

Co-authored-by: Katie Horne <katie.horne@semgrep.com>
Co-authored-by: Finn Ellis <finn@semgrep.com>

docs/troubleshooting/semgrep-app.md, after:

---
slug: semgrep-app
description: "Not seeing what you expect in Semgrep AppSec Platform? Follow these troubleshooting steps or find out how to get one-on-one help."
title: Troubleshooting CI
hide_title: true
tags:
    - Deployment
    - Troubleshooting
    - Semgrep AppSec Platform
---

import RetrieveGhaLogs from "/src/components/procedure/_retrieve-gha-logs.mdx"

# Troubleshooting CI scans

This document outlines troubleshooting steps for issues related to **Semgrep scans** in a CI environment. Refer to the following sections if you're seeing results reported on files that have not changed since the last scan, frequent timeouts, or other issues.

For issues on **deployment or CI configuration**, such as adding repositories, see the knowledge base articles in [<i class="fa-regular fa-file-lines"></i> Semgrep in CI](/kb/semgrep-ci).

## Reproducing the issue locally

To aid in debugging, you can reproduce some aspects of your Semgrep CI job locally. This enables you to inspect the logs and behavior through your terminal rather than in your CI provider's interface. Perform the following steps:

1. Run the following command in your terminal:
    ```
    semgrep login
    ```
1. After logging in, return to the CLI and enter the following: <pre class="language-bash">SEMGREP_REPO_NAME=<span className="placeholder">your-organization</span>/<span className="placeholder">repository-name</span> semgrep ci</pre>
    For example, given a GitHub repository `vulncorp/juice-shop`, the full command would be:
    ```
    SEMGREP_REPO_NAME=vulncorp/juice-shop semgrep ci
    ```

<br />
When running `semgrep ci`, Semgrep fetches rules and any other configurations specific to your CI environment. Setting `SEMGREP_REPO_NAME` is optional, but ensures that:
- Results are sent to the same project (repository) in Semgrep AppSec Platform.
- Any project-specific configurations, such as file ignores, are also respected.

## Troubleshooting GitHub

The first piece of information that the team at Semgrep uses are the **GitHub Actions logs**.

<RetrieveGhaLogs />

<!-- Commenting out this but keeping it in the docs because of the package-logs and semgrep ci --verbose steps
```yaml
name: Semgrep
on:
  workflow_dispatch: {}
  pull_request: {}
  push:
    branches:
      - main
      - master
    paths:
      - .github/workflows/semgrep.yml
  schedule:
    # random HH:MM to avoid a load spike on GitHub Actions at 00:00
    - cron: '57 2 * * *'
jobs:
  semgrep:
    name: semgrep/ci
    runs-on: ubuntu-20.04
    env:
      SEMGREP_APP_TOKEN: ${{ secrets.SEMGREP_APP_TOKEN }}
    container:
      image: semgrep/semgrep
    if: (github.actor != 'dependabot[bot]')
    steps:
      - uses: actions/checkout@v3
      # Use this command for the verbose level of debugging.
      - run: semgrep ci --verbose &> semgrep.log
      # Use this command for the Semgrep's highest logging level, --debug.
      # This command may take longer to run.
      # - run: semgrep ci --debug &> semgrep.log
      - name: package-logs
        if: always()
        run: tar czf logs.tgz semgrep.log
      - name: upload-logs
        if: always()
        uses: actions/upload-artifact@v3
        with:
          name: logs.tgz
          path: logs.tgz
          retention-days: 1
```
-->

## Troubleshooting GitLab SAST

GitLab SAST includes and maintains a Semgrep integration called [`semgrep-sast`](https://gitlab.com/gitlab-org/security-products/analyzers/semgrep) for vulnerability finding.

:::tip
Please visit [GitLab’s SAST troubleshooting guide](https://docs.gitlab.com/ee/user/application_security/sast/#troubleshooting) for help with general GitLab SAST issues.
:::

### The `semgrep-sast` CI job is slow

The `semgrep-sast` job should take less than a minute to scan a large project with 50k lines of Python and TypeScript code. If you see worse performance, please [reach out](/support) to the Semgrep maintainers for help with tracking down the cause. Long runtimes are typically caused by just one rule or source code file taking too long. You can also try these solutions:

#### Review global CI job configuration

You might be creating large files or directories in your GitLab CI config's `before_script:`, `cache:`, or similar sections. The `semgrep-sast` job scans all files available to it, not just the source code committed to Git, so if for example you have a cache configuration of

```yaml
cache:
  paths:
  - node_modules/
```

you should prevent those files from being scanned by [disabling caching](https://docs.gitlab.com/ee/ci/caching/#disable-cache-on-specific-jobs) for the `semgrep-sast` job like this:

```yaml
semgrep-sast:
  cache: {}
```

#### Exclude large paths

If you know which large files might be taking too long to scan, you can use [GitLab SAST's path exclusion feature](https://docs.gitlab.com/ee/user/application_security/sast/#vulnerability-filters) to skip files or directories matching given patterns.

- `SAST_EXCLUDED_PATHS: "*.py"` will ignore the paths at:
  `foo.py`, `src/foo.py`, `foo.py/bar.sh`.
- `SAST_EXCLUDED_PATHS: "tests"` will ignore
  `tests/foo.py` as well as `a/b/tests/c/foo.py`.

You can use a comma separated list to ignore multiple patterns: `SAST_EXCLUDED_PATHS: "*.py, tests"` will ignore all of the preceding paths.

### `semgrep-sast` reports false positives or false negatives

If you're not getting results where you should, or you get too many results, the problem might be with the patterns Semgrep scans for.

You can review the search patterns in the [rules directory of the `semgrep-sast` analyzer](https://gitlab.com/gitlab-org/security-products/analyzers/semgrep/-/tree/main/rules) and report issues to the GitLab team. Refer to the [Semgrep rule writing tutorial](https://semgrep.dev/learn) to help better understand these rule files. You can also refer to the [Semgrep Registry](https://semgrep.dev/explore) which is a collection of 2,000+ Semgrep rules curated by Semgrep, Inc.

### `semgrep-sast` crashes, fails, or is otherwise broken

Semgrep prints an error message to explain what went wrong upon crashes, and often also what to do to fix it.

The output of Semgrep is hidden by default, but [GitLab provides a way](https://docs.gitlab.com/ee/user/application_security/sast/#sast-debug-logging) to see it by setting an environment variable:

```yaml
variables:
  SECURE_LOG_LEVEL: "debug"
```

### How to get GitLab assistance

If you’re a GitLab customer and suspect there’s an issue with GitLab, please [contact GitLab support](https://about.gitlab.com/support/) and open a support ticket. Users of GitLab’s free plans should open a thread in the [GitLab Community Forum](https://forum.gitlab.com/).

## Project-specific issues

A **project** is any repository you have added to Semgrep Cloud Platform for scanning. Refer to the following sections for issues in the **Semgrep AppSec Platform > Projects** page.

### If a project reports the last scan "Never started"

This status means that your CI job never authenticated to Semgrep AppSec Platform.

Check your CI provider (such as GitHub Actions) for the latest Semgrep job execution.

#### If you can’t find a Semgrep CI job

The issue is likely with the CI configuration.

- Make sure that the branch you committed a CI job to is included in the list of branches the job is triggered on.
- Make sure that the CI configuration file has valid syntax. Most providers have a tool for checking the syntax of configuration files.

#### If a Semgrep CI job exists

Check the log output for any hints about what the issue is.

- If the logs mention a missing token or an authentication failure, you can get a new token from the [Settings page of Semgrep AppSec Platform](https://semgrep.dev/manage/settings), and set it as `SEMGREP_APP_TOKEN` in your CI provider's secret management UI.
- Alternatively, if this is the first scan after adding a new GitHub repository, and the repository is a fork, check your Actions tab to see if workflows are enabled:
  ![Screenshot of GitHub's Actions tab with workflows disabled](/img/github-workflows-disabled.png)
  - Enable workflows by clicking **I understand my workflows, go ahead and enable them** to allow Semgrep to scan.

### If a project reports a scan 'Never finished'

Most often, this status means that the job started and authenticated correctly, but failed or was canceled before completion. Check your CI provider (such as GitHub Actions) for the log output of the latest Semgrep job execution. In most cases, you will see an error message with detailed instructions on what to do.

Sometimes, this status may be shown when the scan has been running for a long time (more than an hour) and is still in progress. Scans that eventually produce results will be accepted by Semgrep AppSec Platform, even if this message is shown.

#### If the job is aborted due to taking too long

Many CI providers have a time limit for how long a job can run. If your CI scans regularly take too long and fail to complete:

- Please [reach out](/support) to the Semgrep team for help with tracking down the cause. Semgrep scans most projects with hundreds of rules within a few minutes, and long run times are often caused by just one rule or source code file taking too long.
- To optimize run times, use Semgrep's diff-aware scanning in pull and merge requests to skip scanning unchanged files. For more details, see [Semgrep's behavior](/deployment/customize-ci-jobs).
- Skip scanning large and complex source code files (such as minified JS or generated code) if you know their path by adding a `.semgrepignore` file. See [how to ignore files & directories in Semgrep CI](/ignoring-files-folders-code).
