docs/semgrep-supply-chain/dependency-search.md, before:

---
slug: dependency-search
append_help_link: true
title: Dependency search
hide_title: true
description: "Search through all your dependencies in all your onboarded repositories at any time."
tags:
  - Semgrep Supply Chain
  - Semgrep AppSec Platform
---

# Search for dependencies

:::info Prerequisite
At least one repository that scans for dependencies through Semgrep Supply Chain. See [Scan third-party dependencies](/semgrep-supply-chain/getting-started).
:::

Semgrep Supply Chain's dependency search feature allows you to query for any dependency in your codebase at any time. This feature detects all transitive and direct dependencies across all of your repositories in Semgrep AppSec Platform. Dependency search lists all the versions of a dependency, as well as the repositories that use the dependency.

For newly discovered vulnerabilities, which may not yet have a formal CVE or Supply Chain rule, you can use dependency search to see if you use the vulnerable dependency across all your repositories. You can also use dependency search to see all the versions of a dependency, which can be useful for standardization purposes.

![Screenshot of default dependency search page](/img/SSC-DepSearch.png)
_**Figure**. Default dependency search page._

## Enable and use dependency search

To search your dependencies:

1. Sign in to [Semgrep AppSec Platform](https://semgrep.dev/login).
2. Go to **Settings > Deployment** and navigate to the **Supply Chain (SCA)** section.
  ![Semgrep Supply Chain Settings tab](/img/sc-settings.png#md-width) _**Figure**. The Semgrep Supply Chain Settings tab._
1. Click <i class="fa-solid fa-toggle-large-on"></i> **Dependency search** if it's not already enabled.
2. Navigate to **Supply Chain > Dependencies**.
  ![Semgrep Supply Chain Dependencies tab](/img/SSC-DepSearch.png#md-width) _**Figure**. The Semgrep Supply Chain Dependencies tab._
1. Type the name of the dependency you are searching for.
2. Optional: Apply filters as necessary for your search.

:::tip
Search for ranges of supported versions with the `>` or `<` operators following the @ operator. For example, `body-parser@<1.18.0` finds all versions of `body-parser greater than 1.18.0`.
:::

## Search filters

Dependency search provides the following filters, which correspond to the data points displayed by Semgrep about each dependency:

| Filter | Description |
| - | - |
| Dependency | The name and version of the dependency. |
| Projects | The projects where the dependency can be found. |
| Transitivity | The relationship of the dependency to your codebase. |
| License Policy | The License Policy you set. Determines whether a dependency can be used based on its license. |
| License | The dependency's license type. |
| Ecosystem | The language of the dependency. |

![Screenshot of dependency search with query](/img/SSC-DepSearch-Query.png#md-width)
_**Figure**. Dependency search page with sample search query._

## Troubleshooting: no dependencies appear on the Dependencies page

If you don't see any results on the Dependencies page, ensure that:

* Semgrep Supply Chain can parse your lockfile. Refer to [Supported languages](/supported-languages) for a list of supported languages and lockfiles.
* You've scanned the repository at least once. If you're having trouble seeing dependencies after a scan, see [Why aren't Supply Chain findings showing?](https://semgrep.dev/docs/kb/semgrep-supply-chain/why-no-findings) for additional troubleshooting tips.
* Your filters and search syntax are correct.
* The scan you're searching isn't a diff-aware scan. Only dependencies detected during full scans are shown on the **Dependencies** page.

Commit message:

add info re: loading additional lockfiles to view dependencies (#1851)
* add info on viewing additional dependencies

* minor edits

* Apply suggestions from review

Co-authored-by: s-santillan <sarasantillan@gmail.com>

---------

Co-authored-by: s-santillan <sarasantillan@gmail.com>

docs/semgrep-supply-chain/dependency-search.md, after:

---
slug: dependency-search
append_help_link: true
title: Dependency search
hide_title: true
description: "View and search through all your dependencies in all your onboarded repositories at any time."
tags:
  - Semgrep Supply Chain
  - Semgrep AppSec Platform
---

# View and search for dependencies

:::info Prerequisite
At least one project (repository) that scans for dependencies through Semgrep Supply Chain. See [Scan third-party dependencies](/semgrep-supply-chain/getting-started).
:::

Semgrep Supply Chain's dependency search feature allows you to view and query for any dependency in your project at any time. This feature detects all transitive and direct dependencies across all of your projects in Semgrep AppSec Platform. Dependency search lists all the versions of a dependency, as well as the projects that use the dependency.

For newly discovered vulnerabilities, which may not yet have a formal CVE or Supply Chain rule, you can use dependency search to see if you use the vulnerable dependency across all your repositories. You can also use dependency search to see all the versions of a dependency, which can be useful for standardization purposes.

![Screenshot of default dependency search page](/img/SSC-DepSearch.png)
_**Figure**. Default dependency search page._

## Enable and use dependency search

To search your dependencies:

1. Sign in to [Semgrep AppSec Platform](https://semgrep.dev/login).
2. Go to **Settings > Deployment** and navigate to the **Supply Chain (SCA)** section.
  ![Semgrep Supply Chain Settings tab](/img/sc-settings.png#md-width) _**Figure**. The Semgrep Supply Chain Settings tab._
1. Click <i class="fa-solid fa-toggle-large-on"></i> **Dependency search** if it's not already enabled.
2. Navigate to **Supply Chain > Dependencies**.
  ![Semgrep Supply Chain Dependencies tab](/img/SSC-DepSearch.png#md-width) _**Figure**. The Semgrep Supply Chain Dependencies tab._

At this point, Semgrep displays the lockfiles it has parsed and the dependencies included in each of the parsed lockfiles.

### View additional lockfiles

By default, Semgrep only displays dependencies listed in a given project's first **10** lockfiles. To load information from additional lockfiles:

1. Sign in to [Semgrep AppSec Platform](https://semgrep.dev/login).
2. Navigate to **Supply Chain > Dependencies**, and scroll to the bottom of the page.
3. Click **Fetch more lockfiles**.

## Search for dependencies

To search for dependencies:

1. Sign in to [Semgrep AppSec Platform](https://semgrep.dev/login).
1. Navigate to **Supply Chain > Dependencies**.
1. Using the **Dependency** search bar, type the name of the dependency you are searching for.
1. Optional: Apply filters as necessary for your search.

:::tip
Search for ranges of supported versions with the `>` or `<` operators following the @ operator. For example, `body-parser@<1.18.0` finds all versions of `body-parser greater than 1.18.0`.
:::

## Search filters

Dependency search provides the following filters, which correspond to the data points displayed by Semgrep about each dependency:

| Filter | Description |
| - | - |
| Dependency | The name and version of the dependency. |
| Projects | The projects where the dependency can be found. |
| Transitivity | The relationship of the dependency to your codebase. |
| License Policy | The License Policy you set. Determines whether a dependency can be used based on its license. |
| License | The dependency's license type. |
| Ecosystem | The language of the dependency. |

![Screenshot of dependency search with query](/img/SSC-DepSearch-Query.png#md-width)
_**Figure**. Dependency search page with sample search query._

## Troubleshooting: no dependencies appear on the Dependencies page

If you don't see any results on the Dependencies page, ensure that:

* Semgrep Supply Chain can parse your lockfile. Refer to [Supported languages](/supported-languages) for a list of supported languages and lockfiles.
* You've scanned the repository at least once. If you're having trouble seeing dependencies after a scan, see [Why aren't Supply Chain findings showing?](https://semgrep.dev/docs/kb/semgrep-supply-chain/why-no-findings) for additional troubleshooting tips.
* Your filters and search syntax are correct.
* The scan you're searching isn't a diff-aware scan. Only dependencies detected during full scans are shown on the **Dependencies** page.
