---
slug: findings
append_help_link: true
title: View findings
description: "The Supply Chain page allows users to view findings identified by Semgrep Supply Chain."
hide_title: true
toc_max_heading_level: 3
tags:
 - Semgrep Supply Chain
 - Semgrep AppSec Platform
---

import EpssTypes from "/src/components/concept/_epss-types.md"
import ExportFindingsCsv from "/src/components/procedure/_export-findings-csv.md"
import FindingsDefaultView from "/src/components/concept/_findings-default-view.mdx"
import ReachabilityTypes from "/src/components/concept/_reachability-types.md"
import TimePeriodFilters from "/src/components/concept/_time-period-filters.md"
import TransitivityTypes from "/src/components/concept/_transitivity-types.md"
import ViewDetailsSsc from "/src/components/procedure/_view-details-ssc.md"

# View findings in Semgrep AppSec Platform

Semgrep Supply Chain generates a **finding** when a rule matches a piece of code in your codebase. You can use Semgrep AppSec Platform's [**Supply Chain** page](https://semgrep.dev/orgs/-/supply-chain) to view all of the findings generated by Semgrep Supply Chain after it scans your codebase. Additionally, you can use the **Supply Chain > Dependencies** tab to view information about your dependencies across all onboarded repositories.

:::info Prerequisite
At least one repository that scans for dependencies through Semgrep Supply Chain. See [Scan third-party dependencies](/semgrep-supply-chain/getting-started).
:::

## View findings

To view your findings in Semgrep AppSec Platform:

1. Log in to [Semgrep AppSec Platform](https://semgrep.dev/login).
2. In the **Navigation bar**, click **[Supply Chain](https://semgrep.dev/orgs/-/supply-chain)**.

By default, Semgrep displays your **Priority** findings. Priority findings are defined as findings that:

- Have a severity level of **critical** or **high**
- Are **reachable**

You can switch to the **All** tab at any point to view all findings identified by Semgrep Supply Chain. Both the **Priority** findings view and the **All** findings view display high-level information about your findings.

### Custom Priority tab

Semgrep admins can create a custom priority definition to change the findings shown on the **Priority** tab. To do so:

1. Log in to [Semgrep AppSec Platform](https://semgrep.dev/login).
2. In the **Navigation bar**, click **[Code](https://semgrep.dev/orgs/-/findings)**. Ensure that you're viewing the **Priority**.
3. Using the provided filters, set your parameters for priority findings.
4. Click **Save**.
5. You'll see a dialog window asking you to confirm that you want the changes saved for everyone. Click **Save** to proceed.

This change applies to the entire Semgrep organization. You cannot have separate priority definitions for individual users or teams.

## Filter findings

Regardless of whether you use the **Priority** findings view or the **All** findings view, there are multiple grouping and filtering options available to you.

### Time period

<TimePeriodFilters />

### Project

The **Project** filter allows you to search for findings associated with the selected projects.

### Status

The **Status** filter allows you to search for findings in the selected statuses, which are the triage states of the findings:

* **Open**: Findings for which there have been no triage or remediation action.
* **Reviewing**: Findings that require more investigation to determine what the next steps should be.
* **To fix**: Findings that you have decided to fix. Commonly used to indicate that these findings are tracked in Jira or assigned to developers for further work.
* **Provisionally ignored**: Findings that Semgrep Assistant has flagged as false positives. You can change the status to **Ignored** if you agree with Assistant's assement. Otherwise, you can change the status to **To fix** if you don't agree.
* **Ignored**: Vulnerabilities that have been triaged as **Ignored** by the user. You can filter findings with a status of **Ignored** further by reason: **False positive**, **Acceptable risk**, **No time to fix**, or **No triage reason**.
* **Closed**: Vulnerabilities that are no longer detected after a scan. This typically means that the dependency containing the vulnerability has been updated. Semgrep Supply Chain automatically checks if the dependency has been updated and sets the vulnerability's status as **Fixed**.

### Additional filters

Semgrep offers additional filters that you can use to narrow down your results. The following filters are available:

| Filter | Description |
| - | - |
| **Severity** | The severity of a finding. Filters are based on the severity of a vulnerability. Semgrep Supply Chain rules use severity values set by the source of the rule, such as [GitHub Advisory Database](https://github.com/advisories).  |
| [**Reachability**](#reachability) | The finding's exposure, or whether it is reachable. |
| [**EPSS probability**](#epss-probability) | The finding's [Exploit prediction scoring system (EPSS) probability](https://www.first.org/epss/). |
| **Upgrade guidance (beta)** | The impact of a dependency upgrade on your project as determined by Assistant. |
| **Dependencies** | The name of the dependency involved. |
| **Advisory** | The vulnerabilities' ID number, such as CVE, GHSA, MAL, or keyword. |
| **Malicious dependency** | Whether the finding is for a malicious dependency |
| **Project tags** | The tags associated with the project. |
| **Assistant file risk level** | Filter by the risk level determined by Semgrep Assistant. |

### EPSS probability

<EpssTypes />

### Reachability

The finding's exposure to potential attacks, or whether it is reachable.

<ReachabilityTypes />

### Transitivity

The transitivity of the finding: 

<TransitivityTypes />

### Upgrade guidance (beta)

The impact of a dependency upgrade on your project as determined by Assistant:

- **Safe**: There are unlikely to be breaking changes.
- **Breaking**: Introduces breaking changes; code modifications required.

## Group and sort findings

You can view findings individually or grouped by the rule that identified the finding. 

By default, Semgrep displays your findings using the **Group by Rule** view. This view shows your findings grouped by the rule Semgrep used to match the code. Your findings are shown sorted **by severity**, but you can opt to sort **by number of findings** for a given rule.

A specific finding in the code is called a **usage**. Vulnerability entries are sorted as cards by severity from critical to low, then from oldest to newest.

## Export findings

<ExportFindingsCsv />

## View details about a specific finding

To view in-depth information about a specific finding, select the finding whose details you want to view. Then:

- If the default **Group by Rule** is enabled, click the <i class="fa-regular fa-window-restore"></i> **Details** icon on the card of the finding.
- If the **No grouping** view is enabled, click the **header hyperlink** on the card of the finding.

The finding's details page displays in-depth information about the finding. It also allows you to perform actions such as updating the finding's status as needed, viewing links to any integrations available, such as associated Jira tickets, and communicating with your team regarding the finding. For example, you can add notes to the finding that anyone with access to the finding can see.

## How Semgrep displays findings on multiple branches

<FindingsDefaultView product_name="Supply Chain" />

## Next steps

- Learn more about [viewing a finding's details](/semgrep-supply-chain/finding-details).
- Learn how to [triage and remediate Semgrep Code findings](/semgrep-supply-chain/triage-and-remediation).
- Learn how to [manage your Supply Chain policies](/semgrep-supply-chain/policies)
- Learn how to [ignore manifest files, lockfiles, and dependencies](/semgrep-supply-chain/ignoring-dependencies) to minimize noise in your results.
