docs/semgrep-supply-chain/overview.md, before:

---
slug: overview 
append_help_link: true
description: "Learn how Semgrep leverages its engine to scan open source dependencies with high-signal rules."
tags:
    - Semgrep Supply Chain
    - Team & Enterprise Tier
title: Semgrep Supply Chain overview
hide_title: true
---

import MoreHelp from "/src/components/MoreHelp"
import SscIntro from "/src/components/concept/_ssc-intro.md"
import AdmonitionSscLicense from "/src/components/reference/_admonition-ssc-license.md"

<ul id="tag__badge-list">
{
Object.entries(frontMatter).filter(
    frontmatter => frontmatter[0] === 'tags')[0].pop().map(
    (value) => <li class='tag__badge-item'>{value}</li> )
}
</ul>

# Overview of Semgrep Supply Chain

<SscIntro />

<AdmonitionSscLicense />

![Semgrep Supply chain Vulnerabilities page](/img/sc-vulns.png)
_Figure 1_. Semgrep Supply Chain Vulnerabilities page.

Semgrep Supply Chain parses lockfiles for a list of dependencies, then scans your codebase using **rules **written with Semgrep's pattern syntax. Supply Chain rules specify the following:

* The range of versions that contain the dependency's vulnerability.
* A pattern for vulnerable code, such as passing in unsanitized data.
* The severity of the vulnerability.

Semgrep Supply Chain generates a **finding** when it detects a match. If the dependency's version is within the range and finds the matching code within your codebase, the finding is **reachable**.

A finding is **unreachable** if the dependency contains a known vulnerability, but the vulnerable matching code is not used in your codebase.

In Semgrep Cloud Platform, specific findings of a dependency and code match are called **usages**. Usages are grouped by their **vulnerability**. Vulnerabilities in Semgrep Supply Chain typically have a CVE number corresponding to the record in the [CVE Program](https://www.cve.org/About/Overview).

Semgrep Cloud Platform also includes a list of **Advisories** for reference. Advisories include all vulnerabilities covered by Semgrep Supply Chain, regardless of whether the related dependency is used in scanned code.

The following diagram displays the relationship between a Supply Chain rule, the lockfile, and the codebase being scanned:

![Relationship between a Supply Chain rule, lockfile, CVE record, and codebase](/img/sc-reachability-analysis.png)
_Figure 2_. Relationship between a Supply Chain rule, lockfile, CVE record, and codebase.

## Semgrep and Semgrep Supply Chain

The following table displays differences between Semgrep and Semgrep Supply Chain.

<table>
<thead><tr>
   <th>Feature</th>
   <th>Semgrep</th>
   <th>Semgrep Supply Chain</th>
</tr></thead>
<tbody><tr>
   <td>Type of tool</td>
   <td>Static application security testing (SAST)</td>
   <td>Software composition analysis (SCA)</td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td>Scan target
   </td>
   <td>First-party code (your codebase or repository)
   </td>
   <td>Open source dependencies 
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td>Triage workflow
   </td>
   <td>Findings can be categorized as:
<ul>
<li>Ignored (to triage false positives)</li>
<li>Closed (resolved) by refactoring code</li>
<li>Removed</li>
</ul>
   </td>
   <td>Findings can be categorized as:
<ul>
<li>New</li>
<li>In progress</li>
<li>Fixed</li>
<li>Ignored</li>
</ul>
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td>Remediation workflow
   </td>
   <td>Code refactoring
   </td>
   <td>Upgrading or removing the dependency, code refactoring
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td>Notification channels
   </td>
   <td>Slack, Email, Webhooks
   </td>
   <td>Slack
   </td>
  </tr></tbody>
</table>

## Language support

Refer to [Supported languages](/docs/supported-languages#semgrep-supply-chain) to see all languages supported by Semgrep Supply Chain.

## Transitive dependencies and reachability analysis

See [SSC glossary > Transitivity](/docs/semgrep-supply-chain/glossary/#transitive-or-indirect-dependency) for a definition of a transitive dependency.

* Semgrep Supply Chain does **not** perform reachability analysis for transitive dependencies. This means we do not scan the source code of your dependencies to determine if their dependencies may produce a reachable finding in the code.
* Semgrep Supply Chain supports scanning for transitive or indirect dependencies for all of its [supported languages](/docs/supported-languages#semgrep-supply-chain). Findings are collected and displayed in **Semgrep Cloud Platform** > **Supply Chain**.
* In most cases, Semgrep Supply Chain generates **reachable findings** for **direct dependencies**. However, there are certain dependencies that are vulnerable simply through their inclusion in a codebase. Semgrep Supply Chain generates reachable findings for these types of dependencies even if they are transitive dependencies.

## Next steps: Scanning your codebase

To scan your codebase, follow the instructions in [Scanning open source dependencies](/semgrep-supply-chain/getting-started).

## Additional references

* [Software supply chain security is hard](https://r2c.dev/blog/2022/software-supply-chain-security-is-hard/)
* [The best free, open-source supply-chain security tool? The lockfile](https://r2c.dev/blog/2022/the-best-free-open-source-supply-chain-tool-the-lockfile/)

<MoreHelp />

Commit message:

Add definition of Undetermined to SSC overview

docs/semgrep-supply-chain/overview.md, after:

---
slug: overview 
append_help_link: true
description: "Learn how Semgrep leverages its engine to scan open source dependencies with high-signal rules."
tags:
    - Semgrep Supply Chain
    - Team & Enterprise Tier
title: Semgrep Supply Chain overview
hide_title: true
---

import MoreHelp from "/src/components/MoreHelp"
import SscIntro from "/src/components/concept/_ssc-intro.md"
import AdmonitionSscLicense from "/src/components/reference/_admonition-ssc-license.md"

<ul id="tag__badge-list">
{
Object.entries(frontMatter).filter(
    frontmatter => frontmatter[0] === 'tags')[0].pop().map(
    (value) => <li class='tag__badge-item'>{value}</li> )
}
</ul>

# Overview of Semgrep Supply Chain

<SscIntro />

<AdmonitionSscLicense />

![Semgrep Supply chain Vulnerabilities page](/img/sc-vulns.png)
_Figure 1_. Semgrep Supply Chain Vulnerabilities page.

Semgrep Supply Chain parses lockfiles for a list of dependencies, then scans your codebase using **rules **written with Semgrep's pattern syntax. Supply Chain rules specify the following:

* The range of versions that contain the dependency's vulnerability.
* A pattern for vulnerable code, such as passing in unsanitized data.
* The severity of the vulnerability.

Semgrep Supply Chain generates a **finding** when it detects a match. If the dependency's version is within the range and finds the matching code within your codebase, the finding is **reachable**.

A finding is **unreachable** if the dependency contains a known vulnerability, but the vulnerable matching code is not used in your codebase.

A finding is **undetermined** if Semgrep detects a match for the dependency in the vulnerable version range, but does not scan for the reachability of this vulnerability. This is most common with older or lower severity vulnerabilities.

In Semgrep Cloud Platform, specific findings of a dependency and code match are called **usages**. Usages are grouped by their **vulnerability**. Vulnerabilities in Semgrep Supply Chain typically have a CVE number corresponding to the record in the [CVE Program](https://www.cve.org/About/Overview).

Semgrep Cloud Platform also includes a list of **Advisories** for reference. Advisories include all vulnerabilities covered by Semgrep Supply Chain, regardless of whether the related dependency is used in scanned code.

The following diagram displays the relationship between a Supply Chain rule, the lockfile, and the codebase being scanned:

![Relationship between a Supply Chain rule, lockfile, CVE record, and codebase](/img/sc-reachability-analysis.png)
_Figure 2_. Relationship between a Supply Chain rule, lockfile, CVE record, and codebase.

## Semgrep and Semgrep Supply Chain

The following table displays differences between Semgrep and Semgrep Supply Chain.

<table>
<thead><tr>
   <th>Feature</th>
   <th>Semgrep</th>
   <th>Semgrep Supply Chain</th>
</tr></thead>
<tbody><tr>
   <td>Type of tool</td>
   <td>Static application security testing (SAST)</td>
   <td>Software composition analysis (SCA)</td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td>Scan target
   </td>
   <td>First-party code (your codebase or repository)
   </td>
   <td>Open source dependencies 
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td>Triage workflow
   </td>
   <td>Findings can be categorized as:
<ul>
<li>Ignored (to triage false positives)</li>
<li>Closed (resolved) by refactoring code</li>
<li>Removed</li>
</ul>
   </td>
   <td>Findings can be categorized as:
<ul>
<li>New</li>
<li>In progress</li>
<li>Fixed</li>
<li>Ignored</li>
</ul>
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td>Remediation workflow
   </td>
   <td>Code refactoring
   </td>
   <td>Upgrading or removing the dependency, code refactoring
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td>Notification channels
   </td>
   <td>Slack, Email, Webhooks
   </td>
   <td>Slack
   </td>
  </tr></tbody>
</table>

## Language support

Refer to [Supported languages](/docs/supported-languages#semgrep-supply-chain) to see all languages supported by Semgrep Supply Chain.

## Transitive dependencies and reachability analysis

See [SSC glossary > Transitivity](/docs/semgrep-supply-chain/glossary/#transitive-or-indirect-dependency) for a definition of a transitive dependency.

* Semgrep Supply Chain does **not** perform reachability analysis for transitive dependencies. This means we do not scan the source code of your dependencies to determine if their dependencies may produce a reachable finding in the code.
* Semgrep Supply Chain supports scanning for transitive or indirect dependencies for all of its [supported languages](/docs/supported-languages#semgrep-supply-chain). Findings are collected and displayed in **Semgrep Cloud Platform** > **Supply Chain**.
* In most cases, Semgrep Supply Chain generates **reachable findings** for **direct dependencies**. However, there are certain dependencies that are vulnerable simply through their inclusion in a codebase. Semgrep Supply Chain generates reachable findings for these types of dependencies even if they are transitive dependencies.

## Next steps: Scanning your codebase

To scan your codebase, follow the instructions in [Scanning open source dependencies](/semgrep-supply-chain/getting-started).

## Additional references

* [Software supply chain security is hard](https://r2c.dev/blog/2022/software-supply-chain-security-is-hard/)
* [The best free, open-source supply-chain security tool? The lockfile](https://r2c.dev/blog/2022/the-best-free-open-source-supply-chain-tool-the-lockfile/)

<MoreHelp />
