---
slug: findings
append_help_link: true
title: View findings
description: "The Secrets page allows users to view findings identified by Semgrep Secrets."
hide_title: true
toc_max_heading_level: 3
tags:
    - Semgrep Secrets
    - Semgrep AppSec Platform
---

import ExportFindingsCsv from "/src/components/procedure/_export-findings-csv.md"
import TimePeriodFilters from "/src/components/concept/_time-period-filters.md"
import TriageStatuses from "/src/components/reference/_triage-states.mdx"
import ValidationStates from '/src/components/reference/_validation-states.mdx'

# View findings in Semgrep AppSec Platform

Semgrep Secrets generates a **finding** when a rule matches a piece of code in your codebase. You can use Semgrep AppSec Platform's [**Secrets** page](https://semgrep.dev/orgs/-/findings) to view all of the findings generated by Semgrep Secrets after it scans your codebase.

## View findings

To view your findings in Semgrep AppSec Platform:

1. Log in to [Semgrep AppSec Platform](https://semgrep.dev/login).
2. In the **Navigation bar**, click **[Secrets](https://semgrep.dev/orgs/-/secrets)**.

By default, Semgrep displays your **Priority** findings. Priority findings are defined as **valid** secrets with **critical** or **high** severity.

You can switch to the **All** tab at any point to view all findings identified by Semgrep Secrets. Both the **Priority** findings view and the **All** findings view display high-level information about your findings. Each finding in the list includes.

## Filter findings

Regardless of whether you use the **Priority** findings view or the **All** findings view, there are multiple grouping and filtering options available to you.

### Time period

<TimePeriodFilters />

### Project

The **Project** filter allows you to search for findings associated with the selected projects.

### Status

The **Status** filter allows you to search for findings in the selected statuses. See [Triage status](/semgrep-secrets/findings#triage-statuses) for additional information.

### Additional filters

Semgrep offers additional filters that you can use to narrow down your results. The following filters are available:

| Filter | Description |
| - | - |
| **Severity** | Filter by the severity of a finding. Severity is computed based on the values assigned for [Likelihood](/contributing/contributing-to-semgrep-rules-repository/#likelihood) and [Impact](/contributing/contributing-to-semgrep-rules-repository/#impact) by the rule's author. Possible values: <ul><li>Low</li><li>Medium</li><li>High</li><li>Critical</li></ul> |
| **Validation state**      | Filter by [whether the secret is actively in use or not](#validation). Semgrep Secrets rules include validators, which can check whether the secret is valid for the service with which it is associated. |
| **Secret type**           | Filter by the type of secret, such as **private key**, or the web service that makes use of the secret, such as **Sendgrid** or **Stripe**. |
| **Repository visibility** | Filter by whether the repository's [visibility](#repository-visibility) status. |
| **Historical findings**   | Filter for findings that are valid, leaked secrets in previous Git commits. |
| **Project tags** | Filter for findings based on the tags associated with the project. |
| **Assistant file risk level** | Filter for findings based on Assistant's assessment of risk level of files based on the type of code identified. High-risk files contain sensitive information, such as authorization and authentication details, while low-risk files may be things like test files. You can further filter by file type, such as **payments** or **tests**. |
| **Assistant autotriage** | Filter by whether [Assistant autotriage](/semgrep-assistant/overview#auto-triage) has determined the finding to be a **True positive** or **False positive**. |

#### Severity

Severity is assigned based on how sensitive or crucial the exposed web service is. Possible values include:

* Critical
* High
* Medium
* Low

#### Triage statuses

**Triage** is the prioritization of a finding based on policies or criteria set by your team or organization, such as severity, coding standards, business goals, and product goals.

Semgrep AppSec Platform uses the logic specified in the table below to automatically mark findings as either fixed or removed when they are no longer present in the code. . Additionally, Semgrep can automatically mark findings as **provisionally ignored** based on AI analysis, validation results, and reachability analysis.

You can manually **Ignore** findings or set them as **To fix** or **Reviewing** in Semgrep AppSec Platform directly through **triage** or **bulk triage** actions.

The triage statuses are as follows:

<TriageStatuses />

#### Validation

Refers to whether or not a secret is active and can be used to grant resources or authentication, or if a secret is inactive.

<ValidationStates />

#### Repository visibility

Refers to whether or not the repository is a public repository or private. This is detected through your source code manager.

| Repository visibility | Description |
| -----------  | ------------ |
| Public | Repository access doesn't require authentication; at a minimum, it can be viewed by anyone. |
| Private | Repository access requires authentication. |
| Unknown | Semgrep Secrets is unable to detect your repository visibility. This is typically assigned to: <ul><li>Scans from local developer machines.</li><li>Scans from any non-GitHub source code manager, such as GitLab.</li></ul> |

:::info
Semgrep supports visibility detection only for GitHub repositories.
:::

## Group and sort findings

By default, Semgrep displays your findings using the **Group by Rule** view. This view shows your findings grouped by the rule Semgrep used to match the code. Your findings are shown sorted **by severity**, but you can opt to sort **by number of findings** for a given rule.

To view findings individually, click **Group & sort > No grouping**. Findings are displayed based on the date they were found, with the most recent finding listed at the top.

## Export findings

<ExportFindingsCsv />

## View details about a specific finding

To view in-depth information about a specific finding, select the finding whose details you want to view. Then:

- If the default **Group by Rule** is enabled, click the <i class="fa-regular fa-window-restore"></i> **Details** icon on the card of the finding.
- If the **No grouping** view is enabled, click the **header hyperlink** on the card of the finding.

The finding's details page displays in-depth information about the finding. It also allows you to perform actions such as updating the finding's status as needed, viewing links to any integrations available, such as associated Jira tickets, and communicating with your team regarding the finding. For example, you can add notes to the finding that anyone with access to the finding can see. See [View findings' details](/semgrep-secrets/finding-details) for more information.

## Next steps

- Learn more about [viewing a finding's details](/semgrep-secrets/finding-details).
- Learn how to [triage and remediate Semgrep Code findings](/semgrep-secrets/triage-remediation).
