docs/semgrep-ci/network-broker.md, before:

---
slug: network-broker
title: Semgrep Network Broker
hide_title: false
description: Learn how to set up the Semgrep Network Broker, which facilitates secure access between Semgrep and your private network.
tags:
  - Deployment
---

# Set up the Semgrep Network Broker

The Semgrep Network Broker facilitates secure access between Semgrep and your private network. It accomplishes this by establishing a WireGuard VPN tunnel with the Semgrep infrastructure, then proxying **inbound** HTTP requests from Semgrep to your network through this tunnel. This approach allows Semgrep to interact with on-premise resources without exposing them to the public internet.

Examples of inbound traffic include:

- Pull request (PR) or merge request (MR) comments
- Webhooks

:::info Tier availability
The Semgrep Network Broker is available to Enterprise tier users.
:::

## Prerequisites and feature availability

- The Semgrep Network Broker is a feature that must be enabled in your Semgrep organization (org) before setup. It is only available to paying customers. Contact the [Semgrep support team](/docs/support) to discuss having it enabled for your organization.
  - If you will be using the broker with a dedicated Semgrep tenant, please note that in your request.
- **Docker** must be installed on the server where you install the network broker.

## Configure Semgrep Network Broker

Ensure that you are logged in to the server where you want to run Semgrep Network Broker. Complete the following steps while logged in to that server.

1. Create a `config.yaml` file similar to the following snippet. The steps required to generate values for the placeholders `SEMGREP_LOCAL_ADDRESS`, `YOUR_PRIVATE_KEY`, and `YOUR_BASE_URL`, are provided in subsequent steps of this guide.

  ```yaml
  inbound:
    wireguard:
      localAddress: SEMGREP_LOCAL_ADDRESS
      privateKey: YOUR_PRIVATE_KEY
      peers:
        - publicKey: 4EqJwDZ8X/qXB5u3Wpo2cxnKlysec93uhRvGWPix0lg=
          endpoint: wireguard.semgrep.dev:51820
          allowedIps: fdf0:59dc:33cf:9be9:0000:0000:0000:0001/128
    heartbeat:
      url: http://[fdf0:59dc:33cf:9be9:0000:0000:0000:0001]/ping
    allowlist: []
    gitlab:
      baseUrl: YOUR_BASE_URL
  ```

  The `publicKey` value should be entered precisely as follows:

  ```console
  4EqJwDZ8X/qXB5u3Wpo2cxnKlysec93uhRvGWPix0lg=
  ```

1. The broker requires a WireGuard keypair to establish a secure connection. To generate your private key `YOUR_PRIVATE_KEY`:

   1. Determine the [network broker version](https://github.com/semgrep/semgrep-network-broker/pkgs/container/semgrep-network-broker) you want to use. The format should be similar to `v0.14.0`.

   1. Run the following command in the CLI to generate your private key, replacing the placeholder with the network broker version number:
  <pre class="language-console"><code>docker run ghcr.io/semgrep/semgrep-network-broker:<span className="placeholder">VERSION_NUMBER</span> genkey</code></pre>

1. Run the following command in the CLI to generate your public key, replacing the placeholders with your private key generated in the previous step and the network broker version number:

  <pre class="language-console"><code>echo `<span className="placeholder">YOUR_PRIVATE_KEY</span>` | sudo docker run -i ghcr.io/semgrep/semgrep-network-broker:<span className="placeholder">VERSION_NUMBER</span> pubkey</code></pre>

  :::info Key sharing
  Your public key is safe to share. Do **not** share your private key with anyone, including Semgrep.
  :::

1. Update the `config.yaml` file with your private key:

  ```yaml
  inbound:
    wireguard:
      localAddress: SEMGREP_LOCAL_ADDRESS
      privateKey: YOUR_PRIVATE_KEY
      ...
  ```

1. Add your public key to the Semgrep AppSec Platform:

   1. Log in to Semgrep AppSec Platform.
   2. Navigate to **Settings** > **Broker**.
   3. Paste your public key and click **Add Public Key**.

   ![Screenshot of Semgrep AppSec Platform's Network Broker page](/img/scp-broker.png#md-width)

2. Update the `config.yaml` by replacing `YOUR_BASE_URL` with your Bitbucket Data Center, GitLab, or GitHub URL:

  ```yaml
  # for Bitbucket
  bitbucket:
    baseUrl: <https://bitbucket.example.com/rest/api/latest>

  # for GitLab
  gitlab:
    baseUrl: <https://gitlab.exampleCo.net/api/v4>

  # for GitHub
  github:
    baseUrl: <https://github.exampleCo.com/api/v3>
  ```

1. Convert your deployment ID to hexadecimal for use in creating your deployment's local address `SEMGREP_LOCAL_ADDRESS`. You can use a tool such as [Decimal to Hexadecimal converter](https://www.rapidtables.com/convert/number/decimal-to-hex.html) if needed.

  <pre class="language-console"><code>fdf0:59dc:33cf:9be8:0:<span className="placeholder">DEPLOYMENT_ID</span>:0:1</code></pre>

  Update the `localAddress` field of `config.yaml`;

  ```yaml
  inbound:
    wireguard:
      localAddress: fdf0:59dc:33cf:9be8:0:DEPLOYMENT_ID:0:1
  ```

1. Run the following command to start Semgrep Network Broker with your updated configuration file:

  <pre class="language-console"><code>sudo docker run -d -it --rm -v $(pwd):/emt ghcr.io/semgrep/semgrep-network-broker:<span className="placeholder">VERSION_NUMBER</span> -c /emt/config.yaml</code></pre>

## Check Semgrep Network Broker logs

You can check the logs for Semgrep Network Broker by running:

<pre class="language-console"><code>sudo docker logs <span className="placeholder">CONTAINER_ID</span></code></pre>

## Run multiple instances of the Semgrep Network Broker

If necessary, you can run multiple instances of the Semgrep Network Broker. Semgrep handles its requests accordingly, preventing issues like duplicate PR or MR comments.

Commit message:

Network Broker: Add detail on where to find the org/deployment ID (#1631)
---------
Co-authored-by: Katie Horne <katie.horne@semgrep.com>

docs/semgrep-ci/network-broker.md, after:

---
slug: network-broker
title: Semgrep Network Broker
hide_title: false
description: Learn how to set up the Semgrep Network Broker, which facilitates secure access between Semgrep and your private network.
tags:
  - Deployment
---

# Set up the Semgrep Network Broker

The Semgrep Network Broker facilitates secure access between Semgrep and your private network. It accomplishes this by establishing a WireGuard VPN tunnel with the Semgrep infrastructure, then proxying **inbound** HTTP requests from Semgrep to your network through this tunnel. This approach allows Semgrep to interact with on-premise resources without exposing them to the public internet.

Examples of inbound traffic include:

- Pull request (PR) or merge request (MR) comments
- Webhooks

:::info Tier availability
The Semgrep Network Broker is available to Enterprise tier users.
:::

## Prerequisites and feature availability

- The Semgrep Network Broker is a feature that must be enabled in your Semgrep organization (org) before setup. It is only available to paying customers. Contact the [Semgrep support team](/docs/support) to discuss having it enabled for your organization.
  - If you will be using the broker with a dedicated Semgrep tenant, please note that in your request.
- **Docker** must be installed on the server where you install the network broker.

## Configure Semgrep Network Broker

Ensure that you are logged in to the server where you want to run Semgrep Network Broker. Complete the following steps while logged in to that server.

1. Create a `config.yaml` file similar to the following snippet. The steps required to generate values for the placeholders `SEMGREP_LOCAL_ADDRESS`, `YOUR_PRIVATE_KEY`, and `YOUR_BASE_URL`, are provided in subsequent steps of this guide.

  ```yaml
  inbound:
    wireguard:
      localAddress: SEMGREP_LOCAL_ADDRESS
      privateKey: YOUR_PRIVATE_KEY
      peers:
        - publicKey: 4EqJwDZ8X/qXB5u3Wpo2cxnKlysec93uhRvGWPix0lg=
          endpoint: wireguard.semgrep.dev:51820
          allowedIps: fdf0:59dc:33cf:9be9:0000:0000:0000:0001/128
    heartbeat:
      url: http://[fdf0:59dc:33cf:9be9:0000:0000:0000:0001]/ping
    allowlist: []
    gitlab:
      baseUrl: YOUR_BASE_URL
  ```

  The `publicKey` value should be entered precisely as follows:

  ```console
  4EqJwDZ8X/qXB5u3Wpo2cxnKlysec93uhRvGWPix0lg=
  ```

1. The broker requires a WireGuard keypair to establish a secure connection. To generate your private key `YOUR_PRIVATE_KEY`:

   1. Determine the [network broker version](https://github.com/semgrep/semgrep-network-broker/pkgs/container/semgrep-network-broker) you want to use. The format should be similar to `v0.14.0`.

   1. Run the following command in the CLI to generate your private key, replacing the placeholder with the network broker version number:
  <pre class="language-console"><code>docker run ghcr.io/semgrep/semgrep-network-broker:<span className="placeholder">VERSION_NUMBER</span> genkey</code></pre>

1. Run the following command in the CLI to generate your public key, replacing the placeholders with your private key generated in the previous step and the network broker version number:

  <pre class="language-console"><code>echo `<span className="placeholder">YOUR_PRIVATE_KEY</span>` | sudo docker run -i ghcr.io/semgrep/semgrep-network-broker:<span className="placeholder">VERSION_NUMBER</span> pubkey</code></pre>

  :::info Key sharing
  Your public key is safe to share. Do **not** share your private key with anyone, including Semgrep.
  :::

1. Update the `config.yaml` file with your private key:

  ```yaml
  inbound:
    wireguard:
      localAddress: SEMGREP_LOCAL_ADDRESS
      privateKey: YOUR_PRIVATE_KEY
      ...
  ```

1. Add your public key to the Semgrep AppSec Platform:

   1. Log in to Semgrep AppSec Platform.
   2. Navigate to **Settings** > **Broker**.
   3. Paste your public key and click **Add Public Key**.

   ![Screenshot of Semgrep AppSec Platform's Network Broker page](/img/scp-broker.png#md-width)

2. Update the `config.yaml` by replacing `YOUR_BASE_URL` with your Bitbucket Data Center, GitLab, or GitHub URL:

  ```yaml
  # for Bitbucket
  bitbucket:
    baseUrl: <https://bitbucket.example.com/rest/api/latest>

  # for GitLab
  gitlab:
    baseUrl: <https://gitlab.exampleCo.net/api/v4>

  # for GitHub
  github:
    baseUrl: <https://github.exampleCo.com/api/v3>
  ```

1. Convert your organization ID to hexadecimal for use in creating your `SEMGREP_LOCAL_ADDRESS`. The organization ID is found in the **Identifiers** section of the [Settings' **Deployment** page](https://semgrep.dev/orgs/-/settings) in Semgrep AppSec Platform. You may also hear this called a deployment ID. You can use a tool such as [Decimal to Hexadecimal converter](https://www.rapidtables.com/convert/number/decimal-to-hex.html) to perform the conversion if needed.

  <pre class="language-console"><code>fdf0:59dc:33cf:9be8:0:<span className="placeholder">ORGANIZATION_ID</span>:0:1</code></pre>

  Update the `localAddress` field of `config.yaml`;

  ```yaml
  inbound:
    wireguard:
      localAddress: fdf0:59dc:33cf:9be8:0:ORGANIZATION_ID:0:1
  ```

1. Run the following command to start Semgrep Network Broker with your updated configuration file:

  <pre class="language-console"><code>sudo docker run -d -it --rm -v $(pwd):/emt ghcr.io/semgrep/semgrep-network-broker:<span className="placeholder">VERSION_NUMBER</span> -c /emt/config.yaml</code></pre>

## Check Semgrep Network Broker logs

You can check the logs for Semgrep Network Broker by running:

<pre class="language-console"><code>sudo docker logs <span className="placeholder">CONTAINER_ID</span></code></pre>

## Run multiple instances of the Semgrep Network Broker

If necessary, you can run multiple instances of the Semgrep Network Broker. Semgrep handles its requests accordingly, preventing issues like duplicate PR or MR comments.
