docs/semgrep-ci/sample-ci-configs.md, before:

---
slug: sample-ci-configs
append_help_link: true
description: "View sample configuration files to run Semgrep with various CI/CD providers such as GitHub, GitLab, Jenkins, Buildkite, CircleCI, and more."
title: Sample CI configurations
hide_title: true
tags:
    - Semgrep in CI
    - Community Tier
    - Team & Enterprise Tier
---

<ul id="tag__badge-list">
{
Object.entries(frontMatter).filter(
    frontmatter => frontmatter[0] === 'tags')[0].pop().map(
    (value) => <li class='tag__badge-item'>{value}</li> )
}
</ul>

import MoreHelp from "/src/components/MoreHelp"

import Tabs from '@theme/Tabs';
import TabItem from '@theme/TabItem';

<!-- Import code snippets.
Read /src/components/code_snippets/readme to understand modular code snippet imports. -->

<!-- GHA -->
import GhaSemgrepAppSast from "/src/components/code_snippets/_gha-semgrep-app-sast.mdx"
import GhaSemgrepAppStandalone from "/src/components/code_snippets/_gha-semgrep-app-standalone.mdx"
import GhaSemgrepAppSastDash from "/src/components/code_snippets/_gha-semgrep-app-sast-dash.mdx"
import GhaSemgrepAppStandaloneDash from "/src/components/code_snippets/_gha-semgrep-app-standalone-dash.mdx"
import GhaSemgrepAppSsc from "/src/components/code_snippets/_gha-semgrep-app-ssc.mdx"

<!-- GLCICD -->
import GlcicdSemgrepAppSast from "/src/components/code_snippets/_glcicd-semgrep-app-sast.mdx"
import GlcicdSemgrepAppStandalone from "/src/components/code_snippets/_glcicd-semgrep-app-standalone.mdx"
import GlcicdSemgrepAppSastDash from "/src/components/code_snippets/_glcicd-semgrep-app-sast-dash.mdx"
import GlcicdSemgrepAppStandaloneDash from "/src/components/code_snippets/_glcicd-semgrep-app-standalone-dash.mdx"
import GlcicdSemgrepAppSsc from "/src/components/code_snippets/_glcicd-semgrep-app-ssc.mdx"

<!-- Jenkins -->
import JenkinsSemgrepAppSast from "/src/components/code_snippets/_jenkins-semgrep-app-sast.mdx"
import JenkinsSemgrepAppSsc from "/src/components/code_snippets/_jenkins-semgrep-app-ssc.mdx"
import JenkinsSemgrepAppStandalone from "/src/components/code_snippets/_jenkins-semgrep-app-standalone.mdx"
import JenkinsSemgrepAppSastDocker from "/src/components/code_snippets/_jenkins-semgrep-app-sast-docker.mdx"

<!--BitBucket Pipelines -->
import BitbucketSemgrepAppSast from "/src/components/code_snippets/_bitbucket-semgrep-app-sast.mdx"
import BitbucketSemgrepAppSsc from "/src/components/code_snippets/_bitbucket-semgrep-app-ssc.mdx"
import BitbucketSemgrepAppStandalone from "/src/components/code_snippets/_bitbucket-semgrep-app-standalone.mdx"

<!-- Buildkite -->
import BuildkiteSemgrepAppSast from "/src/components/code_snippets/_buildkite-semgrep-app-sast.mdx"
import BuildkiteSemgrepAppSsc from "/src/components/code_snippets/_buildkite-semgrep-app-ssc.mdx"
import BuildkiteSemgrepAppStandalone from "/src/components/code_snippets/_buildkite-semgrep-app-standalone.mdx"

<!-- CircleCI -->
import CircleCiSemgrepAppSast from "/src/components/code_snippets/_circleci-semgrep-app-sast.mdx"
import CircleCiSemgrepAppSsc from "/src/components/code_snippets/_circleci-semgrep-app-ssc.mdx"
import CircleCiSemgrepAppStandalone from "/src/components/code_snippets/_circleci-semgrep-app-standalone.mdx"

<!-- Azure Pipelines -->
import AzureSemgrepAppSast from "/src/components/code_snippets/_azure-semgrep-app-sast.mdx"
import AzureSemgrepAppSsc from "/src/components/code_snippets/_azure-semgrep-app-ssc.mdx"
import AzureSemgrepAppStandalone from "/src/components/code_snippets/_azure-semgrep-app-standalone.mdx"

import ScmFeatureReference from "/src/components/reference/_scm-feature-reference.md"

# Sample continuous integration (CI) configurations

This document provides sample configuration snippets to run Semgrep CI on various continuous integration (CI) providers.

## Feature support

Support for certain features of Semgrep Cloud Platform depend on your CI provider or source code management tool (SCM). The following table breaks down the features and their availability:

<ScmFeatureReference />

<!-- The following list is not alphabetized. It is ranked based on popularity. -->
<!-- Titles for tabs are based on the most recognizable product name; they don't have to be parallel -->

## GitHub Actions

To add a Semgrep configuration file in your GitHub Actions pipeline:

1. Create a `semgrep.yml` file in `.github/workflows` in the repository you want to scan.
2. Copy the relevant code snippet provided in [Sample GitHub Actions configuration file](#sample-github-actions-configuration-file).
3. Paste the relevant code snippet to `semgrep.yml` file. This is your Semgrep configuration file for GitHub Actions.
4. Commit the configuration file under <code><span className="placeholder">/REPOSITORY-ROOT-DIRECTORY/.github/workflows/semgrep.yml</span></code>.
5. The Semgrep job starts automatically upon detecting the committed `semgrep.yml` file. 

:::note
If you are self-hosting your repository, you must [use a self-hosted runner](https://docs.github.com/en/actions/using-jobs/choosing-the-runner-for-a-job#choosing-self-hosted-runners).
:::
### Sample GitHub Actions configuration file

<Tabs
    defaultValue="gha-semgrep"
    values={[
    {label: 'Semgrep Code', value: 'gha-semgrep'},
    {label: 'Stand-alone SAST', value: 'gha-standalone'},
    {label: 'Semgrep Supply Chain', value: 'gha-ssc'},
    ]}
>

<TabItem value='gha-semgrep'>

<GhaSemgrepAppSast />

</TabItem>

<TabItem value='gha-standalone'>

<GhaSemgrepAppStandalone />

</TabItem>

<TabItem value='gha-ssc'>

<GhaSemgrepAppSsc />

</TabItem>

</Tabs>

<details><summary>Alternate job that uploads findings to GitHub Advanced Security Dashboard</summary>

<Tabs
    defaultValue="gha-semgrep-dash"
    values={[
    {label: 'Semgrep Code', value: 'gha-semgrep-dash'},
    {label: 'Stand-alone SAST', value: 'gha-standalone-dash'},
    ]}
>

<TabItem value='gha-semgrep-dash'>

<GhaSemgrepAppSastDash />

</TabItem>

<TabItem value='gha-standalone-dash'>

<GhaSemgrepAppStandaloneDash />

</TabItem>
</Tabs>

</details>

## GitLab CI/CD

To add a Semgrep configuration snippet in your GitLab CI/CD pipeline:

1. Create or edit your `.gitlab-ci.yml` file in the repository you want to scan.
2. Copy the relevant code snippet provided in [Sample GitLab CI/CD configuration snippet](#sample-gitlab-cicd-configuration-snippet), and then paste it to your `.gitlab-ci.yml` file.
3. Commit the updated `.gitlab-ci.yml` file.
4. The Semgrep job starts automatically upon detecting the committed `.gitlab-ci.yml` file. You can also view the job from your GitLab project's **CI/CD > Pipelines** page. 

### Sample GitLab CI/CD configuration snippet

<Tabs
    defaultValue="glcicd-semgrep"
    values={[
    {label: 'Semgrep Code', value: 'glcicd-semgrep'},
    {label: 'Stand-alone SAST', value: 'glcicd-standalone'},
    {label: 'Semgrep Supply Chain', value: 'glcicd-ssc'},
    ]}
>

<TabItem value='glcicd-semgrep'>

<GlcicdSemgrepAppSast />

</TabItem>

<TabItem value='glcicd-standalone'>

<GlcicdSemgrepAppStandalone />

</TabItem>
<TabItem value='glcicd-ssc'>

<GlcicdSemgrepAppSsc />

</TabItem>
</Tabs>

<details><summary>Alternate job that uploads findings to GitLab SAST Dashboard</summary>

<Tabs
    defaultValue="glcicd-semgrep-dash"
    values={[
    {label: 'Semgrep Code', value: 'glcicd-semgrep-dash'},
    {label: 'Stand-alone SAST', value: 'glcicd-standalone-dash'},
    ]}
>

<TabItem value='glcicd-semgrep-dash'>

<GlcicdSemgrepAppSastDash />

</TabItem>

<TabItem value='glcicd-standalone-dash'>

<GlcicdSemgrepAppStandaloneDash />

</TabItem>
</Tabs>

</details>

## Jenkins

:::note
Your UI (user interface) may vary depending on your Jenkins installation. These steps use a Classic UI Jenkins interface.
:::

To add a Semgrep configuration snippet in your Jenkins pipeline:

1. Create or edit your `Jenkinsfile` configuration file in the repository you want to scan. You can also edit your `Jenkinsfile` from Jenkins's interface.
2. Copy the relevant code snippet provided in [Sample Jenkins configuration snippet](#sample-jenkins-configuration-snippet).
3. Paste the code to your `Jenkinsfile`, and then commit the file.
4. The Semgrep job starts automatically upon detecting the `Jenkinsfile` update.
5. Optional: Create a separate CI job for diff-aware scanning, which scans only changed files in PRs or MRs, by repeating steps 1-3 and uncommenting the `SEMGREP_BASELINE_REF` definition provided within the code snippet.

### Sample Jenkins configuration snippet

<Tabs
    defaultValue="jenkins-semgrep"
    values={[
    {label: 'Semgrep Code', value: 'jenkins-semgrep'},
    {label: 'Stand-alone SAST', value: 'jenkins-standalone'},
    {label: 'Semgrep Supply Chain', value: 'jenkins-ssc'},
    {label: 'Semgrep Code (Docker)', value: 'jenkins-semgrep-docker'},
    ]}
>

<TabItem value='jenkins-semgrep'>

<JenkinsSemgrepAppSast />

</TabItem>

<TabItem value='jenkins-standalone'>

<JenkinsSemgrepAppStandalone />

</TabItem>

<TabItem value='jenkins-ssc'>

<JenkinsSemgrepAppSsc />

</TabItem>

<TabItem value='jenkins-semgrep-docker'>

<JenkinsSemgrepAppSastDocker />

</TabItem>
</Tabs>

## Bitbucket Pipelines

To add a Semgrep configuration snippet into BitBucket Pipelines:

1. Create or edit your `bitbucket-pipelines.yml` file in the repository you want to scan.
2. Copy the relevant code snippet provided in [Sample BitBucket Pipelines configuration snippet](#sample-bitbucket-pipelines-configuration-snippet), and then paste it to your `bitbucket-pipelines.yml`.
3. Commit the updated `bitbucket-pipelines.yml` configuration file.
4. The Semgrep job starts automatically upon detecting the committed `bitbucket-pipelines.yml` file. You can also view the job through BitBucket's interface, by clicking **your repository > Pipelines**. 
5. Optional: Create a separate CI job for diff-aware scanning, which scans only changed files in PRs or MRs, by repeating steps 1-3 and uncommenting the `SEMGREP_BASELINE_REF` definition provided within the code snippet.

:::note
These steps can also be performed through BitBucket's UI wizard. This UI wizard can be accessed through **BitBucket > your repository > Pipelines > Create your first pipeline**.
:::

### Sample BitBucket Pipelines configuration snippet

<Tabs
    defaultValue="bitbucket-semgrep"
    values={[
    {label: 'Semgrep Code', value: 'bitbucket-semgrep'},
    {label: 'Stand-alone SAST', value: 'bitbucket-standalone'},
    {label: 'Semgrep Supply Chain', value: 'bitbucket-ssc'},
    ]}
>

<TabItem value='bitbucket-semgrep'>

<BitbucketSemgrepAppSast />

</TabItem>

<TabItem value='bitbucket-standalone'>

<BitbucketSemgrepAppStandalone />

</TabItem>

<TabItem value='bitbucket-ssc'>

<BitbucketSemgrepAppSsc />

</TabItem>
</Tabs>


## Buildkite

To add Semgrep into your Buildkite pipeline:

1. Create or edit a `pipeline.yml` configuration file to add a Semgrep command as part of your pipeline. Refer to the [BuildKite code snippet](#buildkite-code-snippet). This configuration file can also be stored within Buildkite.
2. Copy the relevant code snippet provided in [Sample Buildkite configuration snippet](#sample-buildkite-configuration-snippet).
3. If you are using Buildkite to store the configuration, save the updated file. Otherwise, commit the updated configuration file into the `/.buildkite` folder within the target repository.
4. The Semgrep job starts automatically upon detecting the committed `pipeline.yml` file. You can also view the job through Buildkite's interface, by clicking **your repository > Pipelines**. 
5. Optional: Create a separate CI job for diff-aware scanning, which scans only changed files in PRs or MRs, by repeating steps 1-3 and uncommenting the `SEMGREP_BASELINE_REF` definition provided within the code snippet.

:::note
These steps can be performed from within Buildkite's interface. From Buildkite's main page, click **Pipelines > ➕ button** to perform these steps within Buildkite's UI.
:::

### Sample Buildkite configuration snippet

<Tabs
    defaultValue="buildkite-semgrep"
    values={[
    {label: 'Semgrep Code', value: 'buildkite-semgrep'},
    {label: 'Stand-alone SAST', value: 'buildkite-standalone'},
    {label: 'Semgrep Supply Chain', value: 'buildkite-ssc'},
    ]}
>

<TabItem value='buildkite-semgrep'>

<BuildkiteSemgrepAppSast />

</TabItem>

<TabItem value='buildkite-standalone'>

<BuildkiteSemgrepAppStandalone />

</TabItem>

<TabItem value='buildkite-ssc'>

<BuildkiteSemgrepAppSsc />

</TabItem>
</Tabs>

## CircleCI

To add Semgrep into your CircleCI pipeline:

1. Create or edit your `config.yml` configuration file in the repository you want to scan.
2. Copy the relevant code snippet provided in [Sample CircleCI configuration snippet](#sample-circleci-configuration-snippet).
3. Commit the updated `config.yml` configuration file into the `/.circleci` folder in the target repository.
4. The Semgrep job starts automatically upon detecting the `config.yml` update.
5. Optional: Create a separate CI job for diff-aware scanning, which scans only changed files in PRs or MRs, by repeating steps 1-3 and uncommenting the `SEMGREP_BASELINE_REF` definition provided in the code snippet.

<!-- 

Note: CircleCI snippet does NOT set the SEMGREP_APP_TOKEN in the config file.
From CSE: 
It gets set from in the UI in the repository settings and automatically 
gets put into the pipeline at runtime.

-->

### Sample CircleCI configuration snippet

<Tabs
    defaultValue="circleci-semgrep"
    values={[
    {label: 'Semgrep Code', value: 'circleci-semgrep'},
    {label: 'Stand-alone SAST', value: 'circleci-standalone'},
    {label: 'Semgrep Supply Chain', value: 'circleci-ssc'},
    ]}
>

<TabItem value='circleci-semgrep'>
<CircleCiSemgrepAppSast /> 

</TabItem>
<TabItem value='circleci-standalone'>

<CircleCiSemgrepAppStandalone /> 

</TabItem>

<TabItem value='circleci-ssc'>

<CircleCiSemgrepAppSsc /> 

</TabItem>
</Tabs>

## Azure Pipelines

To add Semgrep into Azure Pipelines:

1. Access the YAML pipeline editor within Azure Pipelines by following the [YAML pipeline editor](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/devops/pipelines/get-started/yaml-pipeline-editor?view=azure-devops#edit-a-yaml-pipeline) guide.
2. Copy the relevant code snippet provided in [Sample Azure Pipelines configuration snippet](#sample-azure-pipelines-configuration-snippet) into the Azure Pipelines YAML editor.
3. Save the code snippet.
4. Set [environment variables](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/devops/pipelines/process/variables?view=azure-devops&tabs=yaml%2Cbatch#secret-variables).
5. Group the environment variables as a [variable group](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/devops/pipelines/library/variable-groups?view=azure-devops&tabs=classic).
6. Optional: Create a separate CI job for diff-aware scanning, which scans only changed files in PRs or MRs, by repeating steps 1-4 and and adding `SEMGREP_BASELINE_REF` as an environment variable. 

### Sample Azure Pipelines configuration snippet

<Tabs
    defaultValue="azure-semgrep"
    values={[
    {label: 'Semgrep Code', value: 'azure-semgrep'},
    {label: 'Stand-alone SAST', value: 'azure-standalone'},
    {label: 'Semgrep Supply Chain', value: 'azure-ssc'},
    ]}
>

<TabItem value='azure-semgrep'>

<AzureSemgrepAppSast /> 

</TabItem>

<TabItem value='azure-standalone'>

<AzureSemgrepAppStandalone /> 

</TabItem>

<TabItem value='azure-ssc'>

<AzureSemgrepAppSsc /> 

</TabItem>
</Tabs>

## Other providers

To run Semgrep CI on any other provider, use the `returntocorp/semgrep` image, and run the `semgrep ci` command with `SEMGREP_BASELINE_REF` set for diff-aware scanning.

**Note**: If you need to use a different image than docker, install Semgrep CI by `pip install semgrep`.

Using the [configuration reference](../configuration-reference/), you can run Semgrep in the following CI providers:

- AppVeyor
- Bamboo 
- Bitrise
- Buildbot
- Codeship
- Codefresh
- Drone CI
- TeamCity CI
- Travis CI

Is your CI provider missing? Let us know by [filing an issue](https://github.com/returntocorp/semgrep/issues/new?assignees=&labels=&template=feature_request.md&title=).

<MoreHelp />

Commit message:

separate notifs, make guides concise and unified (#967)
* corrected wording and made guide more concise

* revert to semgrep.com

* separated documents

* cleanup of descriptions

* updated snippet

* added links to individual docs

* typo fixes and wording fixes

* Update docs/semgrep-ci/configuration-reference.md

Co-authored-by: Pablo Estrada <pablo@r2c.dev>

* Update docs/semgrep-cloud-platform/bitbucket-pr-comments.md

Co-authored-by: Pablo Estrada <pablo@r2c.dev>

* Update docs/semgrep-ci/configuration-reference.md

Co-authored-by: Pablo Estrada <pablo@r2c.dev>

* corrected bitbucket sp

* corrected config to configuration

* updated wording

* added autofix to individual pages

* add autofix to github gitlab guides

* redirects added

* updated links

* fixing redirects

* more redirects fixed

* redirects

---------

Co-authored-by: Pablo Estrada <pablo@r2c.dev>

docs/semgrep-ci/sample-ci-configs.md, after:

---
slug: sample-ci-configs
append_help_link: true
description: "View sample configuration files to run Semgrep with various CI/CD providers such as GitHub, GitLab, Jenkins, Buildkite, CircleCI, and more."
title: Sample CI configurations
hide_title: true
tags:
    - Semgrep in CI
    - Community Tier
    - Team & Enterprise Tier
---

<ul id="tag__badge-list">
{
Object.entries(frontMatter).filter(
    frontmatter => frontmatter[0] === 'tags')[0].pop().map(
    (value) => <li class='tag__badge-item'>{value}</li> )
}
</ul>

import MoreHelp from "/src/components/MoreHelp"

import Tabs from '@theme/Tabs';
import TabItem from '@theme/TabItem';

<!-- Import code snippets.
Read /src/components/code_snippets/readme to understand modular code snippet imports. -->

<!-- GHA -->
import GhaSemgrepAppSast from "/src/components/code_snippets/_gha-semgrep-app-sast.mdx"
import GhaSemgrepAppStandalone from "/src/components/code_snippets/_gha-semgrep-app-standalone.mdx"
import GhaSemgrepAppSastDash from "/src/components/code_snippets/_gha-semgrep-app-sast-dash.mdx"
import GhaSemgrepAppStandaloneDash from "/src/components/code_snippets/_gha-semgrep-app-standalone-dash.mdx"
import GhaSemgrepAppSsc from "/src/components/code_snippets/_gha-semgrep-app-ssc.mdx"

<!-- GLCICD -->
import GlcicdSemgrepAppSast from "/src/components/code_snippets/_glcicd-semgrep-app-sast.mdx"
import GlcicdSemgrepAppStandalone from "/src/components/code_snippets/_glcicd-semgrep-app-standalone.mdx"
import GlcicdSemgrepAppSastDash from "/src/components/code_snippets/_glcicd-semgrep-app-sast-dash.mdx"
import GlcicdSemgrepAppStandaloneDash from "/src/components/code_snippets/_glcicd-semgrep-app-standalone-dash.mdx"
import GlcicdSemgrepAppSsc from "/src/components/code_snippets/_glcicd-semgrep-app-ssc.mdx"

<!-- Jenkins -->
import JenkinsSemgrepAppSast from "/src/components/code_snippets/_jenkins-semgrep-app-sast.mdx"
import JenkinsSemgrepAppSsc from "/src/components/code_snippets/_jenkins-semgrep-app-ssc.mdx"
import JenkinsSemgrepAppStandalone from "/src/components/code_snippets/_jenkins-semgrep-app-standalone.mdx"
import JenkinsSemgrepAppSastDocker from "/src/components/code_snippets/_jenkins-semgrep-app-sast-docker.mdx"

<!--BitBucket Pipelines -->
import BitbucketSemgrepAppSast from "/src/components/code_snippets/_bitbucket-semgrep-app-sast.mdx"
import BitbucketSemgrepAppSsc from "/src/components/code_snippets/_bitbucket-semgrep-app-ssc.mdx"
import BitbucketSemgrepAppStandalone from "/src/components/code_snippets/_bitbucket-semgrep-app-standalone.mdx"

<!-- Buildkite -->
import BuildkiteSemgrepAppSast from "/src/components/code_snippets/_buildkite-semgrep-app-sast.mdx"
import BuildkiteSemgrepAppSsc from "/src/components/code_snippets/_buildkite-semgrep-app-ssc.mdx"
import BuildkiteSemgrepAppStandalone from "/src/components/code_snippets/_buildkite-semgrep-app-standalone.mdx"

<!-- CircleCI -->
import CircleCiSemgrepAppSast from "/src/components/code_snippets/_circleci-semgrep-app-sast.mdx"
import CircleCiSemgrepAppSsc from "/src/components/code_snippets/_circleci-semgrep-app-ssc.mdx"
import CircleCiSemgrepAppStandalone from "/src/components/code_snippets/_circleci-semgrep-app-standalone.mdx"

<!-- Azure Pipelines -->
import AzureSemgrepAppSast from "/src/components/code_snippets/_azure-semgrep-app-sast.mdx"
import AzureSemgrepAppSsc from "/src/components/code_snippets/_azure-semgrep-app-ssc.mdx"
import AzureSemgrepAppStandalone from "/src/components/code_snippets/_azure-semgrep-app-standalone.mdx"

import ScmFeatureReference from "/src/components/reference/_scm-feature-reference.md"

# Sample continuous integration (CI) configurations

This document provides sample configuration snippets to run Semgrep CI on various continuous integration (CI) providers.

## Feature support

Support for certain features of Semgrep Cloud Platform depend on your CI provider or source code management tool (SCM). The following table breaks down the features and their availability:

<ScmFeatureReference />

<!-- The following list is not alphabetized. It is ranked based on popularity. -->
<!-- Titles for tabs are based on the most recognizable product name; they don't have to be parallel -->

## GitHub Actions

To add a Semgrep configuration file in your GitHub Actions pipeline:

1. Create a `semgrep.yml` file in `.github/workflows` in the repository you want to scan.
2. Copy the relevant code snippet provided in [Sample GitHub Actions configuration file](#sample-github-actions-configuration-file).
3. Paste the relevant code snippet to `semgrep.yml` file. This is your Semgrep configuration file for GitHub Actions.
4. Commit the configuration file under <code><span className="placeholder">/REPOSITORY-ROOT-DIRECTORY/.github/workflows/semgrep.yml</span></code>.
5. The Semgrep job starts automatically upon detecting the committed `semgrep.yml` file. 

:::note
If you are self-hosting your repository, you must [use a self-hosted runner](https://docs.github.com/en/actions/using-jobs/choosing-the-runner-for-a-job#choosing-self-hosted-runners).
:::
### Sample GitHub Actions configuration file

<Tabs
    defaultValue="gha-semgrep"
    values={[
    {label: 'Semgrep Code', value: 'gha-semgrep'},
    {label: 'Stand-alone SAST', value: 'gha-standalone'},
    {label: 'Semgrep Supply Chain', value: 'gha-ssc'},
    ]}
>

<TabItem value='gha-semgrep'>

<GhaSemgrepAppSast />

</TabItem>

<TabItem value='gha-standalone'>

<GhaSemgrepAppStandalone />

</TabItem>

<TabItem value='gha-ssc'>

<GhaSemgrepAppSsc />

</TabItem>

</Tabs>

<details><summary>Alternate job that uploads findings to GitHub Advanced Security Dashboard</summary>

<Tabs
    defaultValue="gha-semgrep-dash"
    values={[
    {label: 'Semgrep Code', value: 'gha-semgrep-dash'},
    {label: 'Stand-alone SAST', value: 'gha-standalone-dash'},
    ]}
>

<TabItem value='gha-semgrep-dash'>

<GhaSemgrepAppSastDash />

</TabItem>

<TabItem value='gha-standalone-dash'>

<GhaSemgrepAppStandaloneDash />

</TabItem>
</Tabs>

</details>

## GitLab CI/CD

To add a Semgrep configuration snippet in your GitLab CI/CD pipeline:

1. Create or edit your `.gitlab-ci.yml` file in the repository you want to scan.
2. Copy the relevant code snippet provided in [Sample GitLab CI/CD configuration snippet](#sample-gitlab-cicd-configuration-snippet), and then paste it to your `.gitlab-ci.yml` file.
3. Commit the updated `.gitlab-ci.yml` file.
4. The Semgrep job starts automatically upon detecting the committed `.gitlab-ci.yml` file. You can also view the job from your GitLab project's **CI/CD > Pipelines** page. 

### Sample GitLab CI/CD configuration snippet

<Tabs
    defaultValue="glcicd-semgrep"
    values={[
    {label: 'Semgrep Code', value: 'glcicd-semgrep'},
    {label: 'Stand-alone SAST', value: 'glcicd-standalone'},
    {label: 'Semgrep Supply Chain', value: 'glcicd-ssc'},
    ]}
>

<TabItem value='glcicd-semgrep'>

<GlcicdSemgrepAppSast />

</TabItem>

<TabItem value='glcicd-standalone'>

<GlcicdSemgrepAppStandalone />

</TabItem>
<TabItem value='glcicd-ssc'>

<GlcicdSemgrepAppSsc />

</TabItem>
</Tabs>

<details><summary>Alternate job that uploads findings to GitLab SAST Dashboard</summary>

<Tabs
    defaultValue="glcicd-semgrep-dash"
    values={[
    {label: 'Semgrep Code', value: 'glcicd-semgrep-dash'},
    {label: 'Stand-alone SAST', value: 'glcicd-standalone-dash'},
    ]}
>

<TabItem value='glcicd-semgrep-dash'>

<GlcicdSemgrepAppSastDash />

</TabItem>

<TabItem value='glcicd-standalone-dash'>

<GlcicdSemgrepAppStandaloneDash />

</TabItem>
</Tabs>

</details>

## Jenkins

:::note
Your UI (user interface) may vary depending on your Jenkins installation. These steps use a Classic UI Jenkins interface.
:::

To add a Semgrep configuration snippet in your Jenkins pipeline:

1. Create or edit your `Jenkinsfile` configuration file in the repository you want to scan. You can also edit your `Jenkinsfile` from Jenkins's interface.
2. Copy the relevant code snippet provided in [Sample Jenkins configuration snippet](#sample-jenkins-configuration-snippet).
3. Paste the code to your `Jenkinsfile`, and then commit the file.
4. The Semgrep job starts automatically upon detecting the `Jenkinsfile` update.
5. Optional: Create a separate CI job for diff-aware scanning, which scans only changed files in PRs or MRs, by repeating steps 1-3 and uncommenting the `SEMGREP_BASELINE_REF` definition provided within the code snippet.

### Sample Jenkins configuration snippet

<Tabs
    defaultValue="jenkins-semgrep"
    values={[
    {label: 'Semgrep Code', value: 'jenkins-semgrep'},
    {label: 'Stand-alone SAST', value: 'jenkins-standalone'},
    {label: 'Semgrep Supply Chain', value: 'jenkins-ssc'},
    {label: 'Semgrep Code (Docker)', value: 'jenkins-semgrep-docker'},
    ]}
>

<TabItem value='jenkins-semgrep'>

<JenkinsSemgrepAppSast />

</TabItem>

<TabItem value='jenkins-standalone'>

<JenkinsSemgrepAppStandalone />

</TabItem>

<TabItem value='jenkins-ssc'>

<JenkinsSemgrepAppSsc />

</TabItem>

<TabItem value='jenkins-semgrep-docker'>

<JenkinsSemgrepAppSastDocker />

</TabItem>
</Tabs>

## Bitbucket Pipelines

To add a Semgrep configuration snippet into BitBucket Pipelines:

1. Create or edit your `bitbucket-pipelines.yml` file in the repository you want to scan.
2. Copy the relevant code snippet provided in [Sample BitBucket Pipelines configuration snippet](#sample-bitbucket-pipelines-configuration-snippet), and then paste it to your `bitbucket-pipelines.yml`.
3. Commit the updated `bitbucket-pipelines.yml` configuration file.
4. The Semgrep job starts automatically upon detecting the committed `bitbucket-pipelines.yml` file. You can also view the job through BitBucket's interface, by clicking **your repository > Pipelines**. 
5. Optional: Create a separate CI job for diff-aware scanning, which scans only changed files in PRs or MRs, by repeating steps 1-3 and uncommenting the `SEMGREP_BASELINE_REF` definition provided within the code snippet.

:::note
These steps can also be performed through BitBucket's UI wizard. This UI wizard can be accessed through **BitBucket > your repository > Pipelines > Create your first pipeline**.
:::

### Sample BitBucket Pipelines configuration snippet

<Tabs
    defaultValue="bitbucket-semgrep"
    values={[
    {label: 'Semgrep Code', value: 'bitbucket-semgrep'},
    {label: 'Stand-alone SAST', value: 'bitbucket-standalone'},
    {label: 'Semgrep Supply Chain', value: 'bitbucket-ssc'},
    ]}
>

<TabItem value='bitbucket-semgrep'>

<BitbucketSemgrepAppSast />

</TabItem>

<TabItem value='bitbucket-standalone'>

<BitbucketSemgrepAppStandalone />

</TabItem>

<TabItem value='bitbucket-ssc'>

<BitbucketSemgrepAppSsc />

</TabItem>
</Tabs>


## Buildkite

To add Semgrep into your Buildkite pipeline:

1. Create or edit a `pipeline.yml` configuration file to add a Semgrep command as part of your pipeline. Refer to the [BuildKite code snippet](#buildkite-code-snippet). This configuration file can also be stored within Buildkite.
2. Copy the relevant code snippet provided in [Sample Buildkite configuration snippet](#sample-buildkite-configuration-snippet).
3. If you are using Buildkite to store the configuration, save the updated file. Otherwise, commit the updated configuration file into the `/.buildkite` folder within the target repository.
4. The Semgrep job starts automatically upon detecting the committed `pipeline.yml` file. You can also view the job through Buildkite's interface, by clicking **your repository > Pipelines**. 
5. Optional: Create a separate CI job for diff-aware scanning, which scans only changed files in PRs or MRs, by repeating steps 1-3 and uncommenting the `SEMGREP_BASELINE_REF` definition provided within the code snippet.

:::note
These steps can be performed from within Buildkite's interface. From Buildkite's main page, click **Pipelines > ➕ button** to perform these steps within Buildkite's UI.
:::

### Sample Buildkite configuration snippet

<Tabs
    defaultValue="buildkite-semgrep"
    values={[
    {label: 'Semgrep Code', value: 'buildkite-semgrep'},
    {label: 'Stand-alone SAST', value: 'buildkite-standalone'},
    {label: 'Semgrep Supply Chain', value: 'buildkite-ssc'},
    ]}
>

<TabItem value='buildkite-semgrep'>

<BuildkiteSemgrepAppSast />

</TabItem>

<TabItem value='buildkite-standalone'>

<BuildkiteSemgrepAppStandalone />

</TabItem>

<TabItem value='buildkite-ssc'>

<BuildkiteSemgrepAppSsc />

</TabItem>
</Tabs>

## CircleCI

To add Semgrep into your CircleCI pipeline:

1. Create or edit your `config.yml` configuration file in the repository you want to scan.
2. Copy the relevant code snippet provided in [Sample CircleCI configuration snippet](#sample-circleci-configuration-snippet).
3. Commit the updated `config.yml` configuration file into the `/.circleci` folder in the target repository.
4. The Semgrep job starts automatically upon detecting the `config.yml` update.
5. Optional: Create a separate CI job for diff-aware scanning, which scans only changed files in PRs or MRs, by repeating steps 1-3 and uncommenting the `SEMGREP_BASELINE_REF` definition provided in the code snippet.

<!-- 

Note: CircleCI snippet does NOT set the SEMGREP_APP_TOKEN in the config file.
From CSE: 
It gets set from in the UI in the repository settings and automatically 
gets put into the pipeline at runtime.

-->

### Sample CircleCI configuration snippet

<Tabs
    defaultValue="circleci-semgrep"
    values={[
    {label: 'Semgrep Code', value: 'circleci-semgrep'},
    {label: 'Stand-alone SAST', value: 'circleci-standalone'},
    {label: 'Semgrep Supply Chain', value: 'circleci-ssc'},
    ]}
>

<TabItem value='circleci-semgrep'>
<CircleCiSemgrepAppSast /> 

</TabItem>
<TabItem value='circleci-standalone'>

<CircleCiSemgrepAppStandalone /> 

</TabItem>

<TabItem value='circleci-ssc'>

<CircleCiSemgrepAppSsc /> 

</TabItem>
</Tabs>

## Azure Pipelines

To add Semgrep into Azure Pipelines:

1. Access the YAML pipeline editor within Azure Pipelines by following the [YAML pipeline editor](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/devops/pipelines/get-started/yaml-pipeline-editor?view=azure-devops#edit-a-yaml-pipeline) guide.
2. Copy the relevant code snippet provided in [Sample Azure Pipelines configuration snippet](#sample-azure-pipelines-configuration-snippet) into the Azure Pipelines YAML editor.
3. Save the code snippet.
4. Set [environment variables](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/devops/pipelines/process/variables?view=azure-devops&tabs=yaml%2Cbatch#secret-variables).
5. Group the environment variables as a [variable group](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/devops/pipelines/library/variable-groups?view=azure-devops&tabs=classic).
6. Optional: Create a separate CI job for diff-aware scanning, which scans only changed files in PRs or MRs, by repeating steps 1-4 and and adding `SEMGREP_BASELINE_REF` as an environment variable. 

### Sample Azure Pipelines configuration snippet

<Tabs
    defaultValue="azure-semgrep"
    values={[
    {label: 'Semgrep Code', value: 'azure-semgrep'},
    {label: 'Stand-alone SAST', value: 'azure-standalone'},
    {label: 'Semgrep Supply Chain', value: 'azure-ssc'},
    ]}
>

<TabItem value='azure-semgrep'>

<AzureSemgrepAppSast /> 

</TabItem>

<TabItem value='azure-standalone'>

<AzureSemgrepAppStandalone /> 

</TabItem>

<TabItem value='azure-ssc'>

<AzureSemgrepAppSsc /> 

</TabItem>
</Tabs>

## Other providers

To run Semgrep CI on any other provider, use the `returntocorp/semgrep` image, and run the `semgrep ci` command with `SEMGREP_BASELINE_REF` set for diff-aware scanning.

**Note**: If you need to use a different image than docker, install Semgrep CI by `pip install semgrep`.

By setting various [CI environment variables](/semgrep-ci/ci-environment-variables), you can run Semgrep in the following CI providers:

- AppVeyor
- Bamboo 
- Bitrise
- Buildbot
- Codeship
- Codefresh
- Drone CI
- TeamCity CI
- Travis CI

Is your CI provider missing? Let us know by [filing an issue](https://github.com/returntocorp/semgrep/issues/new?assignees=&labels=&template=feature_request.md&title=).

<MoreHelp />
