docs/ignoring-files-folders-code.md, before:

---
slug: ignoring-files-folders-code 
append_help_link: true
title: Ignoring files, folders, or code
description: "This documents various methods to skip or ignore files, folders, or code that are not relevant to a Semgrep scan."
---

import MoreHelp from "/src/components/MoreHelp"
import IgnoreIndividualFindings from "/src/components/procedure/_ignore-individual-findings.mdx"

# Ignoring files, folders, or parts of code

Exclude specific files, folders or parts of code from results of Semgrep scans in your repository or working directory. Semgrep does not generate findings for the ignored items.

This is separate from [ignoring a **finding**](../managing-findings), which is a triage operation after a Semgrep scan has found a match.

All Semgrep environments (CLI, CI, and App) adhere to user-defined or Semgrep-defined ignore patterns.

## Reference summary

| Method  | Usage    | Examples |
|:--------|:---------|:---------|
| To ignore blocks of code: `nosemgrep` | Create a comment, followed by a space (` `), followed by `nosemgrep` at the first line or preceding line of the pattern match. | ` // nosemgrep` &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; `// nosemgrep: rule-id` <br /> `# nosemgrep` |
| To ignore files and folders: `.semgrepignore` | Create a `.semgrepignore` file in your **repository's root directory** or your **project's working directory** and add patterns for files and folders there. Patterns follow `.gitignore` syntax with some caveats. See [Defining files and folders in `.semgrepignore`](#defining-files-and-folders-in-semgrepignore). | [`.semgrepignore` sample file](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/returntocorp/semgrep/develop/cli/src/semgrep/templates/.semgrepignore) |

## Understanding Semgrep defaults

Without user customization, Semgrep refers to the following to define ignored files and folders:

* Semgrep's default `.semgrepignore` file
* Your repository's `.gitignore` file (if it exists)

In the absence of a user-generated `.semgrepignore`, Semgrep refers to [its repository's default template](https://github.com/returntocorp/semgrep/blob/develop/cli/src/semgrep/templates/.semgrepignore):

```
DEFAULT_SEMGREPIGNORE_TEXT

```

:::caution
The default `.semgrepignore` file causes Semgrep to skip these folders:

* `/tests`, `/test`
* `/vendors`

To include the above folders, create a `.semgrepignore` file without those paths.
:::

## Files, folders, and code beyond Semgrep's scope

There are files that Semgrep ignores even without `.semgrepignore`:

* Large files (maximum file size defaults to 1MB)
* Binary files
* Unknown file extensions (file extensions not matched with any supported programming language)

Large files and unknown file extensions are included or excluded through command line flags (See [CLI reference](https://semgrep.dev/docs/cli-reference/)). Binary files are never scanned.

This document defines **files, folders and code** as those that are **relevant to a Semgrep scan**. For example, `.jpg` files are not a part of Semgrep's scope and therefore are not part of the scope of this document.


## Customizing ignore behavior

Semgrep provides several methods to customize ignore behavior. Refer to the following table to see which method suits your goal:

| Goal | Method |
|:---- |:------ |
| To scan all files within Semgrep's scope each time you run Semgrep (only files within `.git` are ignored). | Create an empty `.semgrepignore` file in your repository root directory or in your project's working directory. An empty `.semgrepignore` will make Semgrep scan paths in `.gitignore`. |
| To ignore files and folders in `.gitignore`. | Add `:include .gitignore` to your `.semgrepignore` file. |
| To ignore custom files and folders each time you run a scan. | Add these files to your `.semgrepignore` file or [define them through Semgrep Cloud Platform](#defining-files-and-folders-in-semgrep-cloud-platform).|
| To ignore specific code blocks each time you run a scan. | Create a comment with the word `nosemgrep`. |
| To ignore files or folders for a particular scan. | Run Semgrep with the flag `--exclude` followed by the pattern or file to be excluded. See [CLI reference](../cli-reference/).
| To include files or folders for a particular scan. | Run Semgrep with the flag `--include` followed by the  pattern or file to be included. See CLI reference. When including a pattern from a `.gitignore` or `.semgrepignore` file, `--include` does not override either, still resulting in the file's exclusion. |
| To include files or folders defined within a `.gitignore` for a particular scan. | Run Semgrep with the flag `--no-git-ignore`, which overrides its definition within `.semgrepignore` as well. |
| To ignore files or folders for a particular rule. | Edit the rule to set the `paths` key with one or more patterns. See [Rule syntax](../writing-rules/rule-syntax#paths).


## Defining ignored files and folders in `.semgrepignore`

`.semgrepignore` syntax mirrors `.gitignore` syntax, with the following modifications:

* "Include" patterns (lines starting with `!`) are unsupported.
* "Character range" patterns (lines including a collection of characters inside brackets) are unsupported.
* An `:include ...` directive is added, which allows another file to be included in the ignore pattern list; typically this included file would be the project `.gitignore`. No attempt at cycle detection is made.
* Any line that begins with a colon, but not `:include`, raises an error.
* `\:` is added to escape leading colons.

Unsupported patterns are silently removed from the pattern list (this is done so that `.gitignore` files may be included without raising errors). The removal is logged.

For a description of `.gitignore` syntax, see [.gitignore documentation](https://git-scm.com/docs/gitignore).

## Defining ignored files and folders in Semgrep Cloud Platform

Another method for users to define ignore patterns is through a Project in Semgrep Cloud Platform. These patterns follow the same syntax as `.semgrepignore` in the preceding section.

To define files and folders in Semgrep Cloud Platform:

1. Sign in to [Semgrep Cloud Platform](https://semgrep.dev/login?return_path=/manage/projects).
2. From the Dashboard Sidebar, select **[Projects](https://semgrep.dev/orgs/-/projects)** > **[Project name]**.
3. Select the name of the project to modify, and then click the respective <i class="fa-solid fa-gear"></i> **gear** icon in the Settings column.
4. Enter files and folders to ignore in the **Path Ignores** box.

Including files and folders through this method is **additive**. When Semgrep Cloud Platform makes a scan, it looks for a `.semgrepignore` within the repository. If no `.semgrepignore` file is found, Semgrep temporarily creates one and adds items from Semgrep Cloud Platform's Path Ignores. Adding items to the **Path Ignores** box does not override default Semgrep ignore patterns.

You can also add files to `.semgrepignore` while triaging your findings by issuing the following steps:

<IgnoreIndividualFindings />

:::note
Add files to `.semgrepignore` in the fifth step of the procedure described above. 
:::

## Ignoring code through nosemgrep

To ignore blocks of code, define an **inline comment**, followed by a **space** (` `), followed by the word `nosemgrep` at either the **first line** or **the line preceding** the potential match. Semgrep ignores all rule pattern matches. This functionality works across all supported languages.

`nosemgrep` in Python:

```python

bad_func1()  # nosemgrep

# nosemgrep
bad_func2()

```

`nosemgrep` in JavaScript:

```javascript

// nosemgrep
bad_func1()

bad_func2(); // nosemgrep

bad_func3(   // nosemgrep
    arg
);

```

:::info
The space (` `) before `nosemgrep` is required for Semgrep to detect this annotation.
:::

To ignore blocks of code for a **particular rule**, enter its `rule-id` as follows: `nosemgrep: RULE_ID`. To ignore **multiple rules**, use a comma-delimited list. `rule-ids` must be referenced with their namespace.

Python examples:

```python

bad_func1()  # nosemgrep: rule-id-1

# nosemgrep: rule-id-1, rule-id-2
bad_func2() 

```

JavaScript examples wherein rules are stored in a `configs` subdirectory:

```javascript

// nosemgrep: configs.rule-id-3
bad_func1()

bad_func2(); // nosemgrep: configs.rule-id-3

bad_func3(   // nosemgrep: configs.rule-id-3, configs.rule-id-4
    arg
);

```

:::info
Previous annotations for ignoring code inline, such as `nosem`, are deprecated.
:::

## Disabling rules on Semgrep Cloud Platform

Semgrep Cloud Platform users can disable rules and remove rulesets through the Rule Board. See [Disabling rules](/semgrep-code/rule-board/#disabling-rules) and [Removing rulesets](/semgrep-code/rule-board/#removing-rulesets).

## Known issues

### `--no-git-ignore` is overridden due to default ignore patterns (.semgrepignore) ([#4537](https://github.com/returntocorp/semgrep/issues/4537))

To fix this, create an empty .semgrepignore file. If the scan is a one-off event, delete the .semgrepignore file to restore default ignore patterns.

<MoreHelp />

Commit message:

Add admonition to improve differentiation between ignored files and findings (#986)
* Add admonition to improve differentiation between ignored files and findings

---------

Co-authored-by: s-santillan <sarasantillan@gmail.com>

docs/ignoring-files-folders-code.md, after:

---
slug: ignoring-files-folders-code 
append_help_link: true
title: Ignoring files, folders, or code
description: "This documents various methods to skip or ignore files, folders, or code that are not relevant to a Semgrep scan."
---

import MoreHelp from "/src/components/MoreHelp"
import IgnoreIndividualFindings from "/src/components/procedure/_ignore-individual-findings.mdx"

# Ignoring files, folders, or parts of code

Exclude specific files, folders or parts of code from results of Semgrep scans in your repository or working directory. Semgrep does not generate findings for the ignored items.

All Semgrep environments (CLI, CI, and App) adhere to user-defined or Semgrep-defined ignore patterns.

:::info
Ignoring files or folders differs from ignoring a **finding**.
- **Ignoring findings**: When Semgrep finds a match in scanned code and reports it as a finding, you can ignore the finding in Semgrep Code. Semgrep Code still keeps a record of ignored findings for you to review. See [Ignoring findings](semgrep-code/findings/#ignoring-findings) section.
- **Ignoring files or folders**: When you define files or folders that Semgrep must ignore, these files are skipped by Semgrep and **not** scanned. Consequently, there is no code that can be matched and reported as a finding in skipped files. Defining files or folders that Semgrep skips is the focus of this document.
:::

## Reference summary

| Method  | Usage    | Examples |
|:--------|:---------|:---------|
| To ignore blocks of code: `nosemgrep` | Create a comment, followed by a space (` `), followed by `nosemgrep` at the first line or preceding line of the pattern match. | ` // nosemgrep` &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; `// nosemgrep: rule-id` <br /> `# nosemgrep` |
| To ignore files and folders: `.semgrepignore` | Create a `.semgrepignore` file in your **repository's root directory** or your **project's working directory** and add patterns for files and folders there. Patterns follow `.gitignore` syntax with some caveats. See [Defining files and folders in `.semgrepignore`](#defining-files-and-folders-in-semgrepignore). | [`.semgrepignore` sample file](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/returntocorp/semgrep/develop/cli/src/semgrep/templates/.semgrepignore) |

## Understanding Semgrep defaults

Without user customization, Semgrep refers to the following to define ignored files and folders:

* Semgrep's default `.semgrepignore` file
* Your repository's `.gitignore` file (if it exists)

In the absence of a user-generated `.semgrepignore`, Semgrep refers to [its repository's default template](https://github.com/returntocorp/semgrep/blob/develop/cli/src/semgrep/templates/.semgrepignore):

```
DEFAULT_SEMGREPIGNORE_TEXT

```

:::caution
The default `.semgrepignore` file causes Semgrep to skip these folders:

* `/tests`, `/test`
* `/vendors`

To include the above folders, create a `.semgrepignore` file without those paths.
:::

## Files, folders, and code beyond Semgrep's scope

There are files that Semgrep ignores even without `.semgrepignore`:

* Large files (maximum file size defaults to 1MB)
* Binary files
* Unknown file extensions (file extensions not matched with any supported programming language)

Large files and unknown file extensions are included or excluded through command line flags (See [CLI reference](https://semgrep.dev/docs/cli-reference/)). Binary files are never scanned.

This document defines **files, folders and code** as those that are **relevant to a Semgrep scan**. For example, `.jpg` files are not a part of Semgrep's scope and therefore are not part of the scope of this document.


## Customizing ignore behavior

Semgrep provides several methods to customize ignore behavior. Refer to the following table to see which method suits your goal:

| Goal | Method |
|:---- |:------ |
| To scan all files within Semgrep's scope each time you run Semgrep (only files within `.git` are ignored). | Create an empty `.semgrepignore` file in your repository root directory or in your project's working directory. An empty `.semgrepignore` will make Semgrep scan paths in `.gitignore`. |
| To ignore files and folders in `.gitignore`. | Add `:include .gitignore` to your `.semgrepignore` file. |
| To ignore custom files and folders each time you run a scan. | Add these files to your `.semgrepignore` file or [define them through Semgrep Cloud Platform](#defining-files-and-folders-in-semgrep-cloud-platform).|
| To ignore specific code blocks each time you run a scan. | Create a comment with the word `nosemgrep`. |
| To ignore files or folders for a particular scan. | Run Semgrep with the flag `--exclude` followed by the pattern or file to be excluded. See [CLI reference](../cli-reference/).
| To include files or folders for a particular scan. | Run Semgrep with the flag `--include` followed by the  pattern or file to be included. See CLI reference. When including a pattern from a `.gitignore` or `.semgrepignore` file, `--include` does not override either, still resulting in the file's exclusion. |
| To include files or folders defined within a `.gitignore` for a particular scan. | Run Semgrep with the flag `--no-git-ignore`, which overrides its definition within `.semgrepignore` as well. |
| To ignore files or folders for a particular rule. | Edit the rule to set the `paths` key with one or more patterns. See [Rule syntax](../writing-rules/rule-syntax#paths).


## Defining ignored files and folders in `.semgrepignore`

`.semgrepignore` syntax mirrors `.gitignore` syntax, with the following modifications:

* "Include" patterns (lines starting with `!`) are unsupported.
* "Character range" patterns (lines including a collection of characters inside brackets) are unsupported.
* An `:include ...` directive is added, which allows another file to be included in the ignore pattern list; typically this included file would be the project `.gitignore`. No attempt at cycle detection is made.
* Any line that begins with a colon, but not `:include`, raises an error.
* `\:` is added to escape leading colons.

Unsupported patterns are silently removed from the pattern list (this is done so that `.gitignore` files may be included without raising errors). The removal is logged.

For a description of `.gitignore` syntax, see [.gitignore documentation](https://git-scm.com/docs/gitignore).

## Defining ignored files and folders in Semgrep Cloud Platform

Another method for users to define ignore patterns is through a Project in Semgrep Cloud Platform. These patterns follow the same syntax as `.semgrepignore` in the preceding section.

To define files and folders in Semgrep Cloud Platform:

1. Sign in to [Semgrep Cloud Platform](https://semgrep.dev/login?return_path=/manage/projects).
2. From the Dashboard Sidebar, select **[Projects](https://semgrep.dev/orgs/-/projects)** > **[Project name]**.
3. Select the name of the project to modify, and then click the respective <i class="fa-solid fa-gear"></i> **gear** icon in the Settings column.
4. Enter files and folders to ignore in the **Path Ignores** box.

Including files and folders through this method is **additive**. When Semgrep Cloud Platform makes a scan, it looks for a `.semgrepignore` within the repository. If no `.semgrepignore` file is found, Semgrep temporarily creates one and adds items from Semgrep Cloud Platform's Path Ignores. Adding items to the **Path Ignores** box does not override default Semgrep ignore patterns.

You can also add files to `.semgrepignore` while triaging your findings by issuing the following steps:

<IgnoreIndividualFindings />

:::note
Add files to `.semgrepignore` in the fifth step of the procedure described above. 
:::

## Ignoring code through nosemgrep

To ignore blocks of code, define an **inline comment**, followed by a **space** (` `), followed by the word `nosemgrep` at either the **first line** or **the line preceding** the potential match. Semgrep ignores all rule pattern matches. This functionality works across all supported languages.

`nosemgrep` in Python:

```python

bad_func1()  # nosemgrep

# nosemgrep
bad_func2()

```

`nosemgrep` in JavaScript:

```javascript

// nosemgrep
bad_func1()

bad_func2(); // nosemgrep

bad_func3(   // nosemgrep
    arg
);

```

:::info
The space (` `) before `nosemgrep` is required for Semgrep to detect this annotation.
:::

To ignore blocks of code for a **particular rule**, enter its `rule-id` as follows: `nosemgrep: RULE_ID`. To ignore **multiple rules**, use a comma-delimited list. `rule-ids` must be referenced with their namespace.

Python examples:

```python

bad_func1()  # nosemgrep: rule-id-1

# nosemgrep: rule-id-1, rule-id-2
bad_func2() 

```

JavaScript examples wherein rules are stored in a `configs` subdirectory:

```javascript

// nosemgrep: configs.rule-id-3
bad_func1()

bad_func2(); // nosemgrep: configs.rule-id-3

bad_func3(   // nosemgrep: configs.rule-id-3, configs.rule-id-4
    arg
);

```

:::info
Previous annotations for ignoring code inline, such as `nosem`, are deprecated.
:::

## Disabling rules on Semgrep Cloud Platform

Semgrep Cloud Platform users can disable rules and remove rulesets through the Rule Board. See [Disabling rules](/semgrep-code/rule-board/#disabling-rules) and [Removing rulesets](/semgrep-code/rule-board/#removing-rulesets).

## Known issues

### `--no-git-ignore` is overridden due to default ignore patterns (.semgrepignore) ([#4537](https://github.com/returntocorp/semgrep/issues/4537))

To fix this, create an empty .semgrepignore file. If the scan is a one-off event, delete the .semgrepignore file to restore default ignore patterns.

<MoreHelp />
