docs/index.md, before:

---
slug: /
hide_title: true
id: Docs home
displayed_sidebar: topLevelSidebar
description: >-
  Read the documentation and get started with Semgrep.
  A fast, open-source, static analysis engine
  for finding bugs, detecting dependency vulnerabilities, and enforcing code standards at editor, commit, and CI time.
---

import SupportedLanguagesTable from '/src/components/reference/_supported-languages-table.mdx'
import MoreHelp from "/src/components/MoreHelp"
import ThemedImage from '@theme/ThemedImage'

<!---
Substitute the "dark:" logo path in case a new dark logo is made.
The code is kept here for easy maintenance.
-->

<br />
<p align="center">
  <a href="https://semgrep.dev">
    <ThemedImage
      alt="Semgrep themed logo"
      height="105px"
      sources={{
        light: ('img/semgrep.svg'),
        dark: ('img/semgrep.svg'),
      }} />
  </a>
</p>
<h3 align="center">Code scanning at ludicrous speed.<br />Find bugs and reachable dependency vulnerabilities in code.<br />Enforce your code standards on every commit.</h3>

Semgrep is a fast, open-source, static analysis engine for finding bugs, detecting dependency vulnerabilities, and enforcing code standards. [Get started →](/getting-started/quickstart)

Semgrep analyzes code locally on your computer or in your build environment: **code is never uploaded**.

Its rules look like the code you already write; no abstract syntax trees, regex wrestling, or painful DSLs. Here's a rule for finding Python `print()` statements. Run it by clicking the [▸] button:

<iframe title="Semgrep example no prints" src="https://semgrep.dev/embed/editor?snippet=KPzL" width="100%" height="432px" frameBorder="0"></iframe>
<br />

The Semgrep ecosystem includes the following products:

- [Semgrep OSS Engine](/getting-started/quickstart) - The open-source engine at the heart of everything.
- [Semgrep Cloud Platform (SCP)](https://semgrep.dev/login) - Deploy, manage, and monitor SAST, SCA, and leaked secrets at scale using Semgrep Integrates with continuous integration (CI) providers such as GitHub, GitLab, CircleCI, and more.
- [Semgrep Code](https://semgrep.dev/products/semgrep-code) - Scan your code with Semgrep's Pro rules and Semgrep Pro Engine to find OWASP Top 10 vulnerabilities and protect against critical security risks specific to your organization.
    - [Semgrep Pro rules](/semgrep-code/pro-rules) - High-confidence rules written by Semgrep Security Research team for a variety of languages
    - [Semgrep Pro Engine](/semgrep-code/semgrep-pro-engine-intro) - Advanced engine that performs interfile and interprocedural analysis
- [Semgrep Supply Chain (SSC)](https://semgrep.dev/products/semgrep-supply-chain) - A high-signal dependency scanner that detects reachable vulnerabilities in open source third-party libraries and functions across the software development life cycle (SDLC).
- [Semgrep Secrets](https://semgrep.dev/products/semgrep-secrets) - A secrets scanner that detects valid secrets in your codebase through semantic analysis, entropy analysis, and validation.

:::tip
The following products are **free** for up to 10 contributors:
* Semgrep Cloud Platform
* Semgrep Code
* Semgrep Supply Chain
:::

Support and be supported by the Semgrep community through:

* [Semgrep Playground](https://semgrep.dev/editor) - An online interactive tool for writing and sharing rules.
* [Semgrep Registry](https://semgrep.dev/explore) - 2,000+ community-driven rules covering security, correctness, and dependency vulnerabilities.

Semgrep is developed and commercially supported by [Semgrep, Inc](https://semgrep.dev) a software security company.

<p align="center">
  <a href="/docs/getting-started/quickstart">Get started →</a>
</p>

## Language support

### Semgrep Code

Semgrep Code supports over 30 languages and counting! 🚀 Visit [Semgrep Code's supported languages](/docs/supported-languages#semgrep-code) to see all the languages supported.

### Semgrep Supply Chain

Semgrep Supply Chain supports Go, Javascript/Typescript, Python, Ruby, and Java. 🛡️ Visit [Semgrep Supply Chain's supported languages](/docs/supported-languages#semgrep-supply-chain) to see all the package managers and lockfiles supported.

## Environments

The following table lists environments in which you can run various Semgrep products.


| Product              | Local CLI | Remote CI |
| -------------------- | --------- | --------- |
| Semgrep OSS Engine  |  ✅  [Run locally with Semgrep Engine](/getting-started/quickstart)  |   ✅  Can send findings to [Semgrep Cloud Platform](semgrep-ci/running-semgrep-ci-with-semgrep-cloud-platform) or run [stand-alone CI jobs](semgrep-ci/running-semgrep-ci-without-semgrep-cloud-platform) |
| Semgrep Code         |  ✅  Log in to access [Pro Engine](semgrep-code/semgrep-pro-engine-intro) and [Pro rules](semgrep-code/pro-rules) (Team and Enterprise tier) |   ✅  Best used with [Semgrep Cloud Platform](getting-started/quickstart) |
| Semgrep Supply Chain |  ✅  Log in to access [Supply Chain](/semgrep-supply-chain/overview) rules (Team and Enterprise tier)  |   ✅  Best used with [Semgrep Cloud Platform](/getting-started/quickstart) |

:::info
Semgrep Cloud Platform is a hosted web application (SaaS) and as such is excluded from the table.
:::

## History

Semgrep is an evolution of [pfff](https://github.com/semgrep/pfff/), which began at [Facebook](https://github.com/facebookarchive/pfff) in 2009, which itself was an evolution of the Linux refactoring tool [Coccinelle](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Coccinelle_(software)). [Semgrep, Inc](https://semgrep.dev/about) revitalized the project after its original author, [Yoann Padioleau](https://github.com/aryx), joined the company. [Read more in the blog post "Semgrep: A static analysis journey"](https://semgrep.dev/blog/2021/semgrep-a-static-analysis-journey/)

## Semgrep development philosophy

See the [Semgrep OSS Engine Philosophy](contributing/semgrep-philosophy/) for details about why Semgrep is free, our goals for development, and the designed capabilities and limits of the static analysis engine.

Commit message:

Rename Semgrep Cloud Platform [(SCP)] to Semgrep AppSec Platform (#1506)
* Rename Semgrep Cloud Platform [(SCP)] to Semgrep AppSec Platform

* various edits to semgrep appsec platform mentions

---------

Co-authored-by: s-santillan <sarasantillan@gmail.com>

docs/index.md, after:

---
slug: /
hide_title: true
id: Docs home
displayed_sidebar: topLevelSidebar
description: >-
  Read the documentation and get started with Semgrep.
  A fast, open-source, static analysis engine
  for finding bugs, detecting dependency vulnerabilities, and enforcing code standards at editor, commit, and CI time.
---

import SupportedLanguagesTable from '/src/components/reference/_supported-languages-table.mdx'
import MoreHelp from "/src/components/MoreHelp"
import ThemedImage from '@theme/ThemedImage'

<!---
Substitute the "dark:" logo path in case a new dark logo is made.
The code is kept here for easy maintenance.
-->

<br />
<p align="center">
  <a href="https://semgrep.dev">
    <ThemedImage
      alt="Semgrep themed logo"
      height="105px"
      sources={{
        light: ('img/semgrep.svg'),
        dark: ('img/semgrep.svg'),
      }} />
  </a>
</p>
<h3 align="center">Code scanning at ludicrous speed.<br />Find bugs and reachable dependency vulnerabilities in code.<br />Enforce your code standards on every commit.</h3>

Semgrep is a fast, open-source, static analysis engine for finding bugs, detecting dependency vulnerabilities, and enforcing code standards. [Get started →](/getting-started/quickstart)

Semgrep analyzes code locally on your computer or in your build environment: **code is never uploaded**.

Its rules look like the code you already write; no abstract syntax trees, regex wrestling, or painful DSLs. Here's a rule for finding Python `print()` statements. Run it by clicking the [▸] button:

<iframe title="Semgrep example no prints" src="https://semgrep.dev/embed/editor?snippet=KPzL" width="100%" height="432px" frameBorder="0"></iframe>
<br />

The Semgrep ecosystem includes the following products:

- [Semgrep OSS Engine](/getting-started/quickstart) - The open-source engine at the heart of everything.
- [Semgrep AppSec Platform](https://semgrep.dev/login) - Deploy, manage, and monitor SAST, SCA, and leaked secrets at scale using Semgrep Integrates with continuous integration (CI) providers such as GitHub, GitLab, CircleCI, and more.
- [Semgrep Code](https://semgrep.dev/products/semgrep-code) - Scan your code with Semgrep's Pro rules and Semgrep Pro Engine to find OWASP Top 10 vulnerabilities and protect against critical security risks specific to your organization.
    - [Semgrep Pro rules](/semgrep-code/pro-rules) - High-confidence rules written by Semgrep Security Research team for a variety of languages
    - [Semgrep Pro Engine](/semgrep-code/semgrep-pro-engine-intro) - Advanced engine that performs interfile and interprocedural analysis
- [Semgrep Supply Chain (SSC)](https://semgrep.dev/products/semgrep-supply-chain) - A high-signal dependency scanner that detects reachable vulnerabilities in open source third-party libraries and functions across the software development life cycle (SDLC).
- [Semgrep Secrets](https://semgrep.dev/products/semgrep-secrets) - A secrets scanner that detects valid secrets in your codebase through semantic analysis, entropy analysis, and validation.

:::tip
The following products are **free** for up to 10 contributors:
* Semgrep AppSec Platform
* Semgrep Code
* Semgrep Supply Chain
:::

Support and be supported by the Semgrep community through:

* [Semgrep Playground](https://semgrep.dev/editor) - An online interactive tool for writing and sharing rules.
* [Semgrep Registry](https://semgrep.dev/explore) - 2,000+ community-driven rules covering security, correctness, and dependency vulnerabilities.

Semgrep is developed and commercially supported by [Semgrep, Inc](https://semgrep.dev) a software security company.

<p align="center">
  <a href="/docs/getting-started/quickstart">Get started →</a>
</p>

## Language support

### Semgrep Code

Semgrep Code supports over 30 languages and counting! 🚀 Visit [Semgrep Code's supported languages](/docs/supported-languages#semgrep-code) to see all the languages supported.

### Semgrep Supply Chain

Semgrep Supply Chain supports Go, Javascript/Typescript, Python, Ruby, and Java. 🛡️ Visit [Semgrep Supply Chain's supported languages](/docs/supported-languages#semgrep-supply-chain) to see all the package managers and lockfiles supported.

## Environments

The following table lists environments in which you can run various Semgrep products.


| Product              | Local CLI | Remote CI |
| -------------------- | --------- | --------- |
| Semgrep OSS Engine  |  ✅  [Run locally with Semgrep Engine](/getting-started/quickstart)  |   ✅  Can send findings to [Semgrep AppSec Platform](semgrep-ci/running-semgrep-ci-with-semgrep-cloud-platform) or run [stand-alone CI jobs](semgrep-ci/running-semgrep-ci-without-semgrep-cloud-platform) |
| Semgrep Code         |  ✅  Log in to access [Pro Engine](semgrep-code/semgrep-pro-engine-intro) and [Pro rules](semgrep-code/pro-rules) (Team and Enterprise tier) |   ✅  Best used with [Semgrep AppSec Platform](getting-started/quickstart) |
| Semgrep Supply Chain |  ✅  Log in to access [Supply Chain](/semgrep-supply-chain/overview) rules (Team and Enterprise tier)  |   ✅  Best used with [Semgrep AppSec Platform](/getting-started/quickstart) |

:::info
Semgrep AppSec Platform is a hosted web application (SaaS) and as such is excluded from the table.
:::

## History

Semgrep is an evolution of [pfff](https://github.com/semgrep/pfff/), which began at [Facebook](https://github.com/facebookarchive/pfff) in 2009, which itself was an evolution of the Linux refactoring tool [Coccinelle](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Coccinelle_(software)). [Semgrep, Inc](https://semgrep.dev/about) revitalized the project after its original author, [Yoann Padioleau](https://github.com/aryx), joined the company. [Read more in the blog post "Semgrep: A static analysis journey"](https://semgrep.dev/blog/2021/semgrep-a-static-analysis-journey/)

## Semgrep development philosophy

See the [Semgrep OSS Engine Philosophy](contributing/semgrep-philosophy/) for details about why Semgrep is free, our goals for development, and the designed capabilities and limits of the static analysis engine.
