docs/licensing.md, before:

---
slug: licensing
append_help_link: true
description: >-
  Learn about licenses of Semgrep products.
---

# Licensing

This document provides an overview of the licenses of important products created by Semgrep, Inc. See the list of the products and their licenses below:

<dl>
  <dt>Semgrep OSS Engine</dt>
    <dd>Semgrep OSS Engine is an open source project licensed under <a href="https://github.com/semgrep/semgrep/blob/develop/LICENSE">LGPL 2.1</a>. The proprietary extension of Semgrep OSS Engine is Semgrep Code, see also <a href="https://semgrep.dev/terms">Terms of Service</a>.</dd>
  <dt>Semgrep Code, Semgrep Cloud Platform, Semgrep Pro Engine, and Semgrep Pro rules</dt>
    <dd>Proprietary. See <a href="https://semgrep.dev/terms">Terms of Service</a>.</dd> 
  <dt>Semgrep Secrets</dt>
    <dd>Proprietary. See <a href="https://semgrep.dev/terms">Terms of Service</a>.</dd>
  <dt>Semgrep Supply Chain</dt>
    <dd>Proprietary. See <a href="https://semgrep.dev/terms">Terms of Service</a>.</dd>
  <dt>Semgrep Registry</dt>
    <dd>
    <a href="https://semgrep.dev/explore">Semgrep Registry</a> is a collection of rules and rulesets:
    <ul>
    <li>Rules in the <a href="https://github.com/semgrep/semgrep-rules">semgrep-rules</a> repository are licensed LGPL 2.1 under Commons Clause v1.0. Review the <a href="https://github.com/semgrep/semgrep-rules/blob/develop/LICENSE#L10">semgrep-rules license</a>.</li>
    <li>Rules from third-party repositories in the <a href="https://semgrep.dev/explore">Semgrep Registry</a> inherit the licenses of their source repositories. These licenses are displayed within the rule definition in the editor. For example: <a href="https://semgrep.dev/p/trailofbits">Rules written by Trail of Bits</a> security experts licensed under AGPL-3.0 license.</li>
    <li>Premium rules are proprietary.</li>
    </ul>
    </dd>
</dl>

:::info
If you are interested in using our products for your own solutions and code analysis tools, see the [Semgrep FAQ page](/faq/#how-are-semgrep-and-its-rules-licensed) for more information.
:::

:::note
In the [Semgrep Registry](https://semgrep.dev/explore) the license of each rule is displayed under the embedded rule preview. See the following screenshot with the license highlighted in red:
![Screenshot of a rule in Semgrep Registry](/img/semgrep-registry-license.png)
:::

Commit message:

add instructions for claiming a license (#1427)

docs/licensing.md, after:

---
slug: licensing
append_help_link: true
description: >-
  Learn about licenses of Semgrep products.
---

# Licensing

The following is a list of products offered by Semgrep, Inc., along with their license information.

<dl>
  <dt>Semgrep OSS Engine</dt>
    <dd>Semgrep OSS Engine is an open source project licensed under <a href="https://github.com/semgrep/semgrep/blob/develop/LICENSE">LGPL 2.1</a>. The proprietary extension of Semgrep OSS Engine is Semgrep Code, see also <a href="https://semgrep.dev/terms">Terms of Service</a>.</dd>
  <dt>Semgrep Code, Semgrep Cloud Platform, Semgrep Pro Engine, and Semgrep Pro rules</dt>
    <dd>Proprietary. See <a href="https://semgrep.dev/terms">Terms of Service</a>.</dd> 
  <dt>Semgrep Secrets</dt>
    <dd>Proprietary. See <a href="https://semgrep.dev/terms">Terms of Service</a>.</dd>
  <dt>Semgrep Supply Chain</dt>
    <dd>Proprietary. See <a href="https://semgrep.dev/terms">Terms of Service</a>.</dd>
  <dt>Semgrep Registry</dt>
    <dd>
    <a href="https://semgrep.dev/explore">Semgrep Registry</a> is a collection of rules and rulesets:
    <ul>
    <li>Rules in the <a href="https://github.com/semgrep/semgrep-rules">semgrep-rules</a> repository are licensed LGPL 2.1 under Commons Clause v1.0. Review the <a href="https://github.com/semgrep/semgrep-rules/blob/develop/LICENSE#L10">semgrep-rules license</a>.</li>
    <li>Rules from third-party repositories in the <a href="https://semgrep.dev/explore">Semgrep Registry</a> inherit the licenses of their source repositories. These licenses are displayed within the rule definition in the editor. For example: <a href="https://semgrep.dev/p/trailofbits">Rules written by Trail of Bits</a> security experts licensed under AGPL-3.0 license.</li>
    <li>Premium rules are proprietary.</li>
    </ul>
    </dd>
</dl>

## Claim a license

Once you've purchased a subscription, you should receive an email from Semgrep
with your license information. Follow the instructions provided in the email to
claim your license and begin onboarding your Semgrep products.

If you have been provided a license key by Semgrep or if you would like to claim a license manually:

1. Sign up or log in to your Semgrep account.
2. [Create an org](/docs/deployment/create-account-and-orgs/#initial-sign-in-to-semgrep-cloud-platform) if you haven't already done so.
3. Navigate to `http://semgrep.dev/orgs/-/settings/upgrade/YOUR_LICENSE_KEY`,
   making sure that you **replace** the `YOUR_LICENSE_KEY` placeholder with your
   license key value.

## License Semgrep for use

If you are interested in using Semgrep products for your own solutions and code
analysis tools, see the [Semgrep FAQ
page](/faq/#how-are-semgrep-and-its-rules-licensed) for more information.

:::note
In the [Semgrep Registry](https://semgrep.dev/explore), the license of each rule
is displayed under the embedded rule preview. See the following screenshot with
the license highlighted in red:
![Screenshot of a rule in Semgrep Registry](/img/semgrep-registry-license.png)
:::
