docs/supported-languages.md, before:

---
slug: supported-languages
id: supported-languages
append_help_link: true
description: >-
  Semgrep supports more than two dozen languages. Learn about generally available, beta, and experimentally supported languages.
hide_title: true
tags:
    - Semgrep Supply Chain 
    - Semgrep OSS Engine
    - Team & Enterprise Tier
title: Supported languages
---

import SupportedLanguagesTable from '/src/components/reference/_supported-languages-table.mdx'
import SscIntro from "/src/components/concept/_ssc-intro.md"
import MoreHelp from "/src/components/MoreHelp"
import SemgrepProEngineIntroduction from "/src/components/concept/_semgrep-pro-engine-introduction.mdx"
import AdmonitionSotCves from "/src/components/reference/_admonition-sot-cves.md"

<ul id="tag__badge-list">
{
Object.entries(frontMatter).filter(
    frontmatter => frontmatter[0] === 'tags')[0].pop().map(
    (value) => <li class='tag__badge-item'>{value}</li> )
}
</ul>

# Supported languages

This document provides information about supported languages and language maturity definitions for the following products:

* Semgrep Code
* Semgrep Supply Chain

## Semgrep Code 

Secure your code quickly and continuously by scanning with Semgrep Code, our SAST (Static Application Security Testing) product, powered by Semgrep OSS Engine and Semgrep Pro Engine. The Semgrep OSS Engine is the foundation of Semgrep, it's our [open-source engine](https://github.com/returntocorp/semgrep), designed for fast code analysis. The Semgrep Pro Engine is designed for advanced code analysis, designed to catch complex vulnerabilities and reduce false positives. Use Semgrep Code to quickly find and fix vulnerabilities in your code base. 

### Language maturity
Semgrep Code supports over 30 languages and counting! 🚀 

<SupportedLanguagesTable />

### Maturity levels

#### Language maturity factors (Pro Engine)
Semgrep Pro Engine has two maturity levels:
* Generally available (GA) 
* Beta


**Generally Available**: Receives highest quality support from the Semgrep team. Reported issues are resolved promptly and timelines for fixes are communicated to customers within 2 weeks.

**Beta**: Supported by the Semgrep team. Reported issues are tracked and prioritized to be fixed after GA languages.

#### Language maturity factors (OSS Engine)

Semgrep OSS Engine has three maturity levels:
* Generally available (GA) 
* Beta
* Experimental 

Their differences are outlined in the following table:

| Feature  | GA | Beta | Experimental
|----------|---------------|------------------| ----- |
| Parse Rate  | 99%+ | 95%+ | 90%+ | 
| Number of rules  | 10+ | 5+ | 0+ | 
| Semgrep syntax | Regexp, equivalence, deep expression operators, types and typing. All features supported in Beta. | Complete metavariable support, metavariable equality. All features supported in Experimental. | Syntax, ellipsis operator, basic metavariable functionality.|

### More information
Visit the cheat sheet generation script and associated semgrep-core test files to learn more about each feature:
* [Generation script](https://github.com/returntocorp/semgrep/blob/develop/scripts/generate_cheatsheet.py)
* [`semgrep-core` test files](https://github.com/returntocorp/semgrep/tree/develop/tests)

Visit the Semgrep public language dashboard to see the parse rates for each language
* See [Parse rates by language](https://dashboard.semgrep.dev/).

<!-- coupling: If you modify the features in the levels below, change also 
     /semgrep/blob/develop/tests/Test.ml and its maturity level regression testing code.
-->

## Semgrep Supply Chain

<SscIntro/>

Semgrep Supply Chain parses **lockfiles** for dependencies, then scans your codebase for reachable findings based on the lockfiles. Some languages, such as Java, have several lockfiles, depending on your repository's package manager. For some languages, such as JavaScript and Python, a manifest file is also parsed.

<table>
<thead><tr>
    <th>Language</th>
    <th>Supported package managers</th>
    <th>Lockfile</th>
    <th>Reachability support level‡</th>
    <th>License detection support</th>
    <th>Time period of reachability rule coverage for CVEs/GHSAs</th>
</tr></thead>
<tbody><tr>
   <td>Go</td>
   <td>Go modules (<code>go mod</code>)</td>
   <td><code>go.mod</code></td>
   <td style={{"text-align": "center"}}>GA</td>
   <td>✔️</td>
   <td rowspan="14">Since May 2022</td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td rowspan="3">JavaScript or TypeScript</td>
   <td>npm (Node.js)</td>
   <td><code>package-lock.json</code></td>
   <td style={{"text-align": "center"}}>GA</td>
   <td>✔️</td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td>Yarn, Yarn 2, Yarn 3</td>
   <td><code>yarn.lock</code></td>
   <td style={{"text-align": "center"}}>GA</td>
   <td>❌</td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td>pnpm</td>
   <td><code>pnpm-lock.yaml</code></td>
   <td style={{"text-align": "center"}}>GA</td>
   <td>❌</td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td rowspan="4">Python</td>
   <td>pip</td>
   <td><code>requirements.txt</code>†† (generated by e.g. <code>pip freeze</code>)</td>
   <td style={{"text-align": "center"}}>GA</td>
   <td rowspan="4">✔️ (PyPI packages only)</td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td>pip-tools</td>
   <td><code>requirements.txt</code></td>
   <td style={{"text-align": "center"}}>GA</td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td>Pipenv</td>
   <td><code>Pipfile.lock</code></td>
   <td style={{"text-align": "center"}}>GA</td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td>Poetry</td>
   <td><code>poetry.lock</code></td>
   <td style={{"text-align": "center"}}>GA</td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td>Ruby</td>
   <td>RubyGems</td>
   <td><code>Gemfile.lock</code></td>
   <td style={{"text-align": "center"}}>GA</td>
   <td>✔️</td>
  </tr>
<tr rowspan="2">
   <td rowspan="2">Java</td>
   <td>Gradle</td>
   <td><code>gradle.lockfile</code></td>
   <td style={{"text-align": "center"}}>GA</td>
   <td>❌</td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td>Maven</td>
   <td>Maven-generated dependency tree (See <a href="/docs/semgrep-supply-chain/setup-maven/">Setting up SSC scans for Apache Maven</a> for instructions.)</td>
   <td style={{"text-align": "center"}}>GA</td>
   <td>✔️</td>
  </tr>
<tr>
   <td>C#</td>
   <td>NuGet</td>
   <td><code>packages.lock.json</code></td>
   <td style={{"text-align": "center"}}>GA</td>
   <td>✔️</td>
</tr>
<tr>
   <td>Rust</td>
   <td>Cargo</td>
   <td><code>cargo.lock</code></td>
   <td style={{"text-align": "center"}}>Lockfile-only</td>
   <td>✔️</td>
</tr>
<tr>
   <td>PHP</td>
   <td>Composer</td>
   <td><code>composer.lock</code></td>
   <td style={{"text-align": "center"}}>Lockfile-only</td>
   <td>❌</td>
</tr>
  </tbody>
</table>

_*Semgrep Supply Chain scans transitive dependencies for **all supported languages** but does **not** perform reachability analysis on transitive dependencies._ <br />
_**‡Reachability support level** refers to the level of support for reachability analysis for the language. At the minimum, Semgrep Supply Chain uses **lockfile-only** rules, which check a package's version against versions with known vulnerabilities._ <br />
_**††**Semgrep Supply Chain supports `requirements.txt` when it is used as a **lockfile**. This means that `requirements.txt` must be set to exact versions (pinned dependencies) and the file must be generated automatically._

<AdmonitionSotCves />

:::info Transitivity support
For more information on transitivity, see [Transitive dependencies and reachability analysis](/docs/semgrep-supply-chain/overview/#transitive-dependencies-and-reachability-analysis).
:::

### Maturity levels

Semgrep Supply Chain has two maturity levels:

* General Availability (GA)
* Beta

Their differences are outlined in the following table:

<table>
  <tr>
   <td><strong>Feature</strong>
   </td>
   <td><strong>GA</strong>
   </td>
   <td><strong>Beta</strong>
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td>Number of reachability rules
   </td>
   <td>10+
   </td>
   <td>1+
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td>Semgrep, Inc. rule-writing support
   </td>
   <td>Quickly release new rules for all critical and high vulnerabilities based on the latest <a href="https://nvd.nist.gov/vuln">security advisories</a>.
   </td>
   <td>No commitment for new rules based on the latest security advisories.
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td>Semgrep OSS Engine <a href='/docs/supported-languages#semgrep-oss-engine'>language support</a>
   </td>
   <td>Semgrep OSS Engine support is GA.
   </td>
   <td>Semgrep OSS Engine support is at least Beta.
   </td>
  </tr>
</table>

:::info Feature and product maturity levels
* The detailed specifications previously provided apply only to language support. Language maturity levels differ from feature and product maturity levels.
* Semgrep features and products documented as experimental, beta, or GA generally follow the definitions in a [Software release life cycle](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Software_release_life_cycle).
:::

## Known limitations of Semgrep Pro Engine

### CommonJS

Currently Semgrep Pro Engine does not handle specific cases of CommmonJS where you define a function and assign it to an export later, Semgrep Pro Engine does not track the code below:

```js
function get_user() {
    return get_user_input("example")
  }

module.exports = get_user
```

### Regressions in Semgrep Pro

For cross-file (interfile) analysis, Semgrep Pro Engine resolves names differently than Semgrep OSS. Consequently, rules with `interfile: true` may produce different results than Semgrep OSS Engine. Some instances could be regarded as regressions; if you encounter them, please file a bug report. When you need to report a bug in Semgrep Pro Engine, go through [support@semgrep.com](mailto:support@semgrep.com). You can also contact us through [Semgrep Community Slack group](https://go.semgrep.dev/slack).

<MoreHelp />

Commit message:

add support levels to language maturity docs

docs/supported-languages.md, after:

---
slug: supported-languages
id: supported-languages
append_help_link: true
description: >-
  Semgrep supports more than two dozen languages. Learn about generally available, beta, and experimentally supported languages.
hide_title: true
tags:
    - Semgrep Supply Chain 
    - Semgrep OSS Engine
    - Team & Enterprise Tier
title: Supported languages
---

import SupportedLanguagesTable from '/src/components/reference/_supported-languages-table.mdx'
import SscIntro from "/src/components/concept/_ssc-intro.md"
import MoreHelp from "/src/components/MoreHelp"
import SemgrepProEngineIntroduction from "/src/components/concept/_semgrep-pro-engine-introduction.mdx"
import AdmonitionSotCves from "/src/components/reference/_admonition-sot-cves.md"

<ul id="tag__badge-list">
{
Object.entries(frontMatter).filter(
    frontmatter => frontmatter[0] === 'tags')[0].pop().map(
    (value) => <li class='tag__badge-item'>{value}</li> )
}
</ul>

# Supported languages

This document provides information about supported languages and language maturity definitions for the following products:

* Semgrep Code
* Semgrep Supply Chain

## Semgrep Code 

Secure your code quickly and continuously by scanning with Semgrep Code, our SAST (Static Application Security Testing) product, powered by Semgrep OSS Engine and Semgrep Pro Engine. The Semgrep OSS Engine is the foundation of Semgrep, it's our [open-source engine](https://github.com/returntocorp/semgrep), designed for fast code analysis. The Semgrep Pro Engine is designed for advanced code analysis, designed to catch complex vulnerabilities and reduce false positives. Use Semgrep Code to quickly find and fix vulnerabilities in your code base. 

### Language maturity
Semgrep Code supports over 30 languages and counting! 🚀 

<SupportedLanguagesTable />

### Maturity levels

#### Language maturity factors (Pro Engine)
Semgrep Pro Engine has two maturity levels:
* Generally available (GA) 
* Beta


**Generally Available**: Receives highest quality support from the Semgrep team. Reported issues are resolved promptly and timelines for fixes are communicated to customers within 2 weeks.

**Beta**: Supported by the Semgrep team. Reported issues are tracked and prioritized to be fixed after GA languages.

#### Language maturity factors (OSS Engine)

Semgrep OSS Engine has three maturity levels:
* Generally available (GA) 
* Beta
* Experimental 

Their differences are outlined in the following table:

| Feature  | GA | Beta | Experimental
|----------|---------------|------------------| ----- |
| Parse Rate  | 99%+ | 95%+ | 90%+ | 
| Number of rules  | 10+ | 5+ | 0+ | 
| Semgrep syntax | Regexp, equivalence, deep expression operators, types and typing. All features supported in Beta. | Complete metavariable support, metavariable equality. All features supported in Experimental. | Syntax, ellipsis operator, basic metavariable functionality.|
| Support | Highest quality support by the Semgrep team. Reported issues are resolved promptly. | Supported by the Semgrep team. Reported issues are fixed after GA languages. | There are limitations to this language's functionality. Reported issues are tracked and prioritized with best effort.|


### More information
Visit the cheat sheet generation script and associated semgrep-core test files to learn more about each feature:
* [Generation script](https://github.com/returntocorp/semgrep/blob/develop/scripts/generate_cheatsheet.py)
* [`semgrep-core` test files](https://github.com/returntocorp/semgrep/tree/develop/tests)

Visit the Semgrep public language dashboard to see the parse rates for each language
* See [Parse rates by language](https://dashboard.semgrep.dev/).

<!-- coupling: If you modify the features in the levels below, change also 
     /semgrep/blob/develop/tests/Test.ml and its maturity level regression testing code.
-->

## Semgrep Supply Chain

<SscIntro/>

Semgrep Supply Chain parses **lockfiles** for dependencies, then scans your codebase for reachable findings based on the lockfiles. Some languages, such as Java, have several lockfiles, depending on your repository's package manager. For some languages, such as JavaScript and Python, a manifest file is also parsed.

<table>
<thead><tr>
    <th>Language</th>
    <th>Supported package managers</th>
    <th>Lockfile</th>
    <th>Reachability support level‡</th>
    <th>License detection support</th>
    <th>Time period of reachability rule coverage for CVEs/GHSAs</th>
</tr></thead>
<tbody><tr>
   <td>Go</td>
   <td>Go modules (<code>go mod</code>)</td>
   <td><code>go.mod</code></td>
   <td style={{"text-align": "center"}}>GA</td>
   <td>✔️</td>
   <td rowspan="14">Since May 2022</td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td rowspan="3">JavaScript or TypeScript</td>
   <td>npm (Node.js)</td>
   <td><code>package-lock.json</code></td>
   <td style={{"text-align": "center"}}>GA</td>
   <td>✔️</td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td>Yarn, Yarn 2, Yarn 3</td>
   <td><code>yarn.lock</code></td>
   <td style={{"text-align": "center"}}>GA</td>
   <td>❌</td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td>pnpm</td>
   <td><code>pnpm-lock.yaml</code></td>
   <td style={{"text-align": "center"}}>GA</td>
   <td>❌</td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td rowspan="4">Python</td>
   <td>pip</td>
   <td><code>requirements.txt</code>†† (generated by e.g. <code>pip freeze</code>)</td>
   <td style={{"text-align": "center"}}>GA</td>
   <td rowspan="4">✔️ (PyPI packages only)</td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td>pip-tools</td>
   <td><code>requirements.txt</code></td>
   <td style={{"text-align": "center"}}>GA</td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td>Pipenv</td>
   <td><code>Pipfile.lock</code></td>
   <td style={{"text-align": "center"}}>GA</td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td>Poetry</td>
   <td><code>poetry.lock</code></td>
   <td style={{"text-align": "center"}}>GA</td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td>Ruby</td>
   <td>RubyGems</td>
   <td><code>Gemfile.lock</code></td>
   <td style={{"text-align": "center"}}>GA</td>
   <td>✔️</td>
  </tr>
<tr rowspan="2">
   <td rowspan="2">Java</td>
   <td>Gradle</td>
   <td><code>gradle.lockfile</code></td>
   <td style={{"text-align": "center"}}>GA</td>
   <td>❌</td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td>Maven</td>
   <td>Maven-generated dependency tree (See <a href="/docs/semgrep-supply-chain/setup-maven/">Setting up SSC scans for Apache Maven</a> for instructions.)</td>
   <td style={{"text-align": "center"}}>GA</td>
   <td>✔️</td>
  </tr>
<tr>
   <td>C#</td>
   <td>NuGet</td>
   <td><code>packages.lock.json</code></td>
   <td style={{"text-align": "center"}}>GA</td>
   <td>✔️</td>
</tr>
<tr>
   <td>Rust</td>
   <td>Cargo</td>
   <td><code>cargo.lock</code></td>
   <td style={{"text-align": "center"}}>Lockfile-only</td>
   <td>✔️</td>
</tr>
<tr>
   <td>PHP</td>
   <td>Composer</td>
   <td><code>composer.lock</code></td>
   <td style={{"text-align": "center"}}>Lockfile-only</td>
   <td>❌</td>
</tr>
  </tbody>
</table>

_*Semgrep Supply Chain scans transitive dependencies for **all supported languages** but does **not** perform reachability analysis on transitive dependencies._ <br />
_**‡Reachability support level** refers to the level of support for reachability analysis for the language. At the minimum, Semgrep Supply Chain uses **lockfile-only** rules, which check a package's version against versions with known vulnerabilities._ <br />
_**††**Semgrep Supply Chain supports `requirements.txt` when it is used as a **lockfile**. This means that `requirements.txt` must be set to exact versions (pinned dependencies) and the file must be generated automatically._

<AdmonitionSotCves />

:::info Transitivity support
For more information on transitivity, see [Transitive dependencies and reachability analysis](/docs/semgrep-supply-chain/overview/#transitive-dependencies-and-reachability-analysis).
:::

### Maturity levels

Semgrep Supply Chain has two maturity levels:

* General Availability (GA)
* Beta

Their differences are outlined in the following table:

<table>
  <tr>
   <td><strong>Feature</strong>
   </td>
   <td><strong>GA</strong>
   </td>
   <td><strong>Beta</strong>
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td>Number of reachability rules
   </td>
   <td>10+
   </td>
   <td>1+
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td>Semgrep, Inc. rule-writing support
   </td>
   <td>Quickly release new rules for all critical and high vulnerabilities based on the latest <a href="https://nvd.nist.gov/vuln">security advisories</a>.
   </td>
   <td>No commitment for new rules based on the latest security advisories.
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td>Semgrep OSS Engine <a href='/docs/supported-languages#semgrep-oss-engine'>language support</a>
   </td>
   <td>Semgrep OSS Engine support is GA.
   </td>
   <td>Semgrep OSS Engine support is at least Beta.
   </td>
  </tr>
</table>

:::info Feature and product maturity levels
* The detailed specifications previously provided apply only to language support. Language maturity levels differ from feature and product maturity levels.
* Semgrep features and products documented as experimental, beta, or GA generally follow the definitions in a [Software release life cycle](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Software_release_life_cycle).
:::

## Known limitations of Semgrep Pro Engine

### CommonJS

Currently Semgrep Pro Engine does not handle specific cases of CommmonJS where you define a function and assign it to an export later, Semgrep Pro Engine does not track the code below:

```js
function get_user() {
    return get_user_input("example")
  }

module.exports = get_user
```

### Regressions in Semgrep Pro

For cross-file (interfile) analysis, Semgrep Pro Engine resolves names differently than Semgrep OSS. Consequently, rules with `interfile: true` may produce different results than Semgrep OSS Engine. Some instances could be regarded as regressions; if you encounter them, please file a bug report. When you need to report a bug in Semgrep Pro Engine, go through [support@semgrep.com](mailto:support@semgrep.com). You can also contact us through [Semgrep Community Slack group](https://go.semgrep.dev/slack).

<MoreHelp />
