docs/support.md, before:

---
slug: support
append_help_link: true
title: Support
hide_title: true
description: Learn about the support options offered by Semgrep.
tags:
  - support
  - troubleshooting
---

# Support

This document provides various methods for all users of Semgrep to get help.

## Support for Semgrep customers

All paying customers have access to a variety of support channels, technical
documentation, and an active community of Semgrep users to help them make the
most out of their Semgrep subscription.

### Support hours

Semgrep technical support is available 18 hours a day, five days a week, from 6
AM to 12 AM UTC, Monday to Friday, excluding Semgrep-recognized holidays.

### Contacting support

All Semgrep customers can contact Semgrep Support through the following methods.

#### Slack

Customers with a private Slack channel with Semgrep can open a support case
directly from Slack. 

#### Web

Customers who log in to Semgrep AppSec Platform can open a support case
from the [Help section](https://semgrep.dev/orgs/-/support). 

#### Email

For non-urgent inquiries, or when you need to provide detailed information about
your issue, you can email the Support team at
[support@semgrep.com](mailto:support@semgrep.com).

## Support for all Semgrep users (community support)

[Join the Slack community](https://go.semgrep.dev/slack) to chat with the
Semgrep maintainers and support engineers. All users, including OSS Engine users
and Pro Engine users without a paid subscription plan, are welcome to ask for help in
the community Slack group.

Users interested in seeing a demo or proof of concept can also send inquiries
through [email](mailto:support@semgrep.com).

## Semgrep OSS support

Users of Semgrep OSS can log bugs and feature requests in the
[semgrep](https://github.com/semgrep/semgrep/issues) repository. They can also
ask questions regarding usage, rollouts, and deployments in the [community Slack
group](https://go.semgrep.dev/slack)

## Status page

The [Semgrep status page](https://status.semgrep.dev/) enables users to
subscribe to notifications whenever an incident is created, updated, or
resolved. Check the status page to see any current or past service incidents or
to review historical uptime.

Commit message:

remove mentions of semgrep pro engine

docs/support.md, after:

---
slug: support
append_help_link: true
title: Support
hide_title: true
description: Learn about the support options offered by Semgrep.
tags:
  - support
  - troubleshooting
---

# Support

This document provides various methods for all users of Semgrep to get help.

## Support for Semgrep customers

All paying customers have access to a variety of support channels, technical
documentation, and an active community of Semgrep users to help them make the
most out of their Semgrep subscription.

### Support hours

Semgrep technical support is available 18 hours a day, five days a week, from 6
AM to 12 AM UTC, Monday to Friday, excluding Semgrep-recognized holidays.

### Contacting support

All Semgrep customers can contact Semgrep Support through the following methods.

#### Slack

Customers with a private Slack channel with Semgrep can open a support case
directly from Slack.

#### Web

Customers who log in to Semgrep AppSec Platform can open a support case
from the [Help section](https://semgrep.dev/orgs/-/support).

#### Email

For non-urgent inquiries, or when you need to provide detailed information about
your issue, you can email the Support team at
[support@semgrep.com](mailto:support@semgrep.com).

## Support for all Semgrep users (community support)

[Join the Slack community](https://go.semgrep.dev/slack) to chat with the
Semgrep maintainers and support engineers. All users, including Semgrep OSS users and Semgrep AppSec Platform users without a paid subscription plan, are welcome to ask for help in the community Slack group.

Users interested in seeing a demo or proof of concept can also send inquiries
through [email](mailto:support@semgrep.com).

## Semgrep OSS support

Users of Semgrep OSS can log bugs and feature requests in the
[semgrep](https://github.com/semgrep/semgrep/issues) repository. They can also
ask questions regarding usage, roll outs, and deployments in the [community Slack
group](https://go.semgrep.dev/slack)

## Status page

The [Semgrep status page](https://status.semgrep.dev/) enables users to
subscribe to notifications whenever an incident is created, updated, or
resolved. Check the status page to see any current or past service incidents or
to review historical uptime.
