docs/contributing/contributing.md, before:

---
slug: contributing
description: "Semgrep is LGPL-licensed and contributions are welcome. Get started by filing an issue, fixing a bug, contributing rules to the registry, adding a feature, or updating the docs. You can also contribute by helping others in the Semgrep Community Slack!"
---

# Contributing overview

Your contributions are welcome!

To contribute, read and agree with the [Contributor Covenant Code of Conduct](https://github.com/returntocorp/semgrep/blob/develop/CODE_OF_CONDUCT.md).

Your contributions can help in various places:

|      Contribution      |      Where to contribute      |
|------------------------|-------------------------------|
| File a Semgrep issue. | See the [Semgrep GitHub repository](https://github.com/returntocorp/semgrep/issues/new/choose). |
| Contribute code changes. | Follow the [Contributing code](/contributing/contributing-code) document. Find a task in the [list of good first issues](https://github.com/returntocorp/semgrep/issues?q=is%3Aopen+is%3Aissue+label%3A%22good+first+issue%22). |
| Contribute rules to the Semgrep Registry. | Add new rules through Semgrep Cloud Platform or GitHub. See [Contributing rules](/contributing/contributing-to-semgrep-rules-repository/). |
| Update the documentation you are reading right now! | Create a PR or an issue in the [Documentation repository](https://github.com/returntocorp/semgrep-docs). |
| Help others in the community. | Check [Semgrep Community Slack](https://go.semgrep.dev/slack). |

For any contribution to Semgrep code (bug fix or fixed issue, feature), read more about development workflow and testing in the [contribution guidelines](contributing-code.md). For a high-level view of Semgrep’s design principles, see the [Semgrep OSS Engine philosophy](../contributing/philosophy.md).

Commit message:

Add link to VS Code extension to the contributing docs

docs/contributing/contributing.md, after:

---
slug: contributing
description: "Semgrep is LGPL-licensed and contributions are welcome. Get started by filing an issue, fixing a bug, contributing rules to the registry, adding a feature, or updating the docs. You can also contribute by helping others in the Semgrep Community Slack!"
---

# Contributing overview

Your contributions are welcome!

To contribute, read and agree with the [Contributor Covenant Code of Conduct](https://github.com/returntocorp/semgrep/blob/develop/CODE_OF_CONDUCT.md).

Your contributions can help in various places:

|      Contribution      |      Where to contribute      |
|------------------------|-------------------------------|
| File a Semgrep issue.  | See the [Semgrep GitHub repository](https://github.com/returntocorp/semgrep/issues/new/choose). |
| Contribute code changes. | Follow the [Contributing code](/contributing/contributing-code) document. Find a task in the [list of good first issues](https://github.com/returntocorp/semgrep/issues?q=is%3Aopen+is%3Aissue+label%3A%22good+first+issue%22). |
| Contribute rules to the Semgrep Registry. | Add new rules through Semgrep Cloud Platform or GitHub. See [Contributing rules](/contributing/contributing-to-semgrep-rules-repository/). |
| Update the documentation you are reading right now! | Create a PR or an issue in the [Documentation repository](https://github.com/returntocorp/semgrep-docs). |
| File an issue for our Semgrep Visual Studio Code extension or help us to improve it. |See the [semgrep-vscode](https://github.com/returntocorp/semgrep-vscode) repository. |
| Help others in the community. | Check [Semgrep Community Slack](https://go.semgrep.dev/slack). |

For any contribution to Semgrep code (bug fix or fixed issue, feature), read more about development workflow and testing in the [contribution guidelines](contributing-code.md). For a high-level view of Semgrep’s design principles, see the [Semgrep OSS Engine philosophy](../contributing/philosophy.md).
