src/components/code_snippets/_bitbucket-semgrep-app-ssc.mdx, before:

```yaml
image: atlassian/default-image:latest

pipelines:
  default:
    - parallel:
      - step:
          name: 'Run Semgrep scan with current branch'
          deployment: dev # https://support.atlassian.com/bitbucket-cloud/docs/set-up-and-monitor-deployments/
          image: semgrep/semgrep
          script:
            # The following variables are required to set up a scan connected to Semgrep Cloud Platform:
            - export SEMGREP_APP_TOKEN=$SEMGREP_APP_TOKEN

            # Uncomment the following line to scan changed 
            # files in PRs or MRs (diff-aware scanning): 
            # - export SEMGREP_BASELINE_REF = "origin/main"
            # - git fetch origin "+refs/heads/*:refs/remotes/origin/*"

            # Troubleshooting:

            # Uncomment the following lines if Semgrep Cloud Platform > Findings Page does not create links
            # to the code that generated a finding or if you are not receiving PR or MR comments.
            # - export SEMGREP_JOB_URL="${SEMGREP_REPO_URL}/addon/pipelines/home#!/results/${BITBUCKET_PIPELINE_UUID}"
            # - export SEMGREP_COMMIT=$BITBUCKET_COMMIT
            # - export SEMGREP_PR_ID=$BITBUCKET_PR_ID
            # - export SEMGREP_BRANCH=$BITBUCKET_BRANCH
            # - export SEMGREP_REPO_URL=$BITBUCKET_GIT_HTTP_ORIGIN
            # - export SEMGREP_REPO_NAME=$BITBUCKET_REPO_FULL_NAME

            - semgrep ci --supply-chain
```

Commit message:

Rename Semgrep Cloud Platform [(SCP)] to Semgrep AppSec Platform

src/components/code_snippets/_bitbucket-semgrep-app-ssc.mdx, after:

```yaml
image: atlassian/default-image:latest

pipelines:
  default:
    - parallel:
        - step:
            name: "Run Semgrep scan with current branch"
            deployment: dev # https://support.atlassian.com/bitbucket-cloud/docs/set-up-and-monitor-deployments/
            image: semgrep/semgrep
            script:
              # The following variables are required to set up a scan connected to Semgrep AppSec Platform:
              - export SEMGREP_APP_TOKEN=$SEMGREP_APP_TOKEN

              # Uncomment the following line to scan changed
              # files in PRs or MRs (diff-aware scanning):
              # - export SEMGREP_BASELINE_REF = "origin/main"
              # - git fetch origin "+refs/heads/*:refs/remotes/origin/*"

              # Troubleshooting:

              # Uncomment the following lines if Semgrep AppSec Platform > Findings Page does not create links
              # to the code that generated a finding or if you are not receiving PR or MR comments.
              # - export SEMGREP_JOB_URL="${SEMGREP_REPO_URL}/addon/pipelines/home#!/results/${BITBUCKET_PIPELINE_UUID}"
              # - export SEMGREP_COMMIT=$BITBUCKET_COMMIT
              # - export SEMGREP_PR_ID=$BITBUCKET_PR_ID
              # - export SEMGREP_BRANCH=$BITBUCKET_BRANCH
              # - export SEMGREP_REPO_URL=$BITBUCKET_GIT_HTTP_ORIGIN
              # - export SEMGREP_REPO_NAME=$BITBUCKET_REPO_FULL_NAME

              - semgrep ci --supply-chain
```
