src/components/code_snippets/_gha-semgrep-app-sast.mdx, before:

<!--

CI code snippet for GitHub Actions with Semgrep Cloud Platform (SAST)

-->

```yaml
# Name of this GitHub Actions workflow.
name: Semgrep

on:
  # Scan changed files in PRs (diff-aware scanning):
  pull_request: {}
  # Scan on-demand through GitHub Actions interface:
  workflow_dispatch: {}
  # Scan mainline branches and report all findings:
  push:
    branches: ["master", "main"]
  # Schedule the CI job (this method uses cron syntax):
  schedule:
    - cron: '20 17 * * *' # Sets Semgrep to scan every day at 17:20 UTC.
    # It is recommended to change the schedule to a random time.

jobs:
  semgrep:
    # User definable name of this GitHub Actions job.
    name: semgrep/ci 
    # If you are self-hosting, change the following `runs-on` value: 
    runs-on: ubuntu-latest

    container:
      # A Docker image with Semgrep installed. Do not change this.
      image: returntocorp/semgrep

    # Skip any PR created by dependabot to avoid permission issues:
    if: (github.actor != 'dependabot[bot]')

    steps:
      # Fetch project source with GitHub Actions Checkout.
      - uses: actions/checkout@v3
      # Run the "semgrep ci" command on the command line of the docker image.
      - run: semgrep ci
        env:
          # Connect to Semgrep Cloud Platform through your SEMGREP_APP_TOKEN.
          # Generate a token from Semgrep Cloud Platform > Settings
          # and add it to your GitHub secrets.
          SEMGREP_APP_TOKEN: ${{ secrets.SEMGREP_APP_TOKEN }}
```

Commit message:

add warning about GHA filters

src/components/code_snippets/_gha-semgrep-app-sast.mdx, after:

<!--

CI code snippet for GitHub Actions with Semgrep Cloud Platform (SAST)

-->

```yaml
# Name of this GitHub Actions workflow.
name: Semgrep

on:
  # Scan changed files in PRs (diff-aware scanning):
  pull_request: {}
  # Scan on-demand through GitHub Actions interface:
  workflow_dispatch: {}
  # Scan mainline branches and report all findings:
  push:
    # If you define both branches/branches-ignore and
    # paths/paths-ignore, the workflow only runs when
    # both filters are satisfied
    branches: ["master", "main"]
  # Schedule the CI job (this method uses cron syntax):
  schedule:
    - cron: '20 17 * * *' # Sets Semgrep to scan every day at 17:20 UTC.
    # It is recommended to change the schedule to a random time.

jobs:
  semgrep:
    # User definable name of this GitHub Actions job.
    name: semgrep/ci 
    # If you are self-hosting, change the following `runs-on` value: 
    runs-on: ubuntu-latest

    container:
      # A Docker image with Semgrep installed. Do not change this.
      image: returntocorp/semgrep

    # Skip any PR created by dependabot to avoid permission issues:
    if: (github.actor != 'dependabot[bot]')

    steps:
      # Fetch project source with GitHub Actions Checkout.
      - uses: actions/checkout@v3
      # Run the "semgrep ci" command on the command line of the docker image.
      - run: semgrep ci
        env:
          # Connect to Semgrep Cloud Platform through your SEMGREP_APP_TOKEN.
          # Generate a token from Semgrep Cloud Platform > Settings
          # and add it to your GitHub secrets.
          SEMGREP_APP_TOKEN: ${{ secrets.SEMGREP_APP_TOKEN }}
```
