---
slug: july-2025
hide_title: true
description: >-
    Release notes include the changes, fixes, and additions in specific versions of Semgrep.
toc_max_heading_level: 3
title: July 2025
tags:
 - Release notes
---

<!-- Remember to update index page -->
 
# Semgrep release notes for July 2025

The following updates were made to Semgrep in July 2025.

## 🌐 Semgrep AppSec Platform

### Added

- Support for running Semgrep natively on Windows is now in **public beta**. This applies to running Semgrep through the CLI and an IDE such as Cursor, VS Code, and IntelliJ.
- Semgrep now includes a link to the GitHub pull request (PR) on the finding details page if you link a Semgrep finding in the PR you create.
- By default, diff-aware managed scans now have **fail open** enabled in the event a scan errors out or takes too long. This means that diff-aware scans are marked as successful on the pull request (PR) or merge request (MR), even if they haven't completed after the specified timeout, allowing you to make the Semgrep status check required in your source code manager (SCM) while not blocking someone from merging a PR or MR if the check encounters an unexpected issue or takes too long.

### Changed

- General UI improvements, including style fixes.

### Fixed

- Fixed an issue where you couldn't add a connection to GitHub Enterprise without an access token.

## 💻 Semgrep Code

### Added

- Semgrep now prints warnings for each `paths.include` and `paths.exclude` pattern found in rules that Semgrep considers ambiguous. 
  - **Example**: a pattern containing a middle slash, such as `src/*.c`, is considered floating, or unanchored. To comply with `gitignore` and `semgrepignore` specifications, `src/*.c` must be treated as anchored. Semgrep prints a warning asking the user to resolve any ambiguity if it exists. The user is asked to change the `src/*.c` pattern to either `/src/*.c`, anchored, or `**/src/*.c`, floating. 
`HTTP{,S}_PROXY=...` now accepts URIs without a scheme, such as `HTTP_PROXY=domain.com:port`.

### Fixed

- Fixed an issue where some diff-aware scans on shallow clones would use the incorrect merge base, resulting in a scan on commits not a part of the pull request. This is because Semgrep now considers the specific merge base to use when performing diff-aware scans. 
- Fixed an issue where an empty file would sometimes be created in place of a missing input file.
- Fixed an issue where log files weren't succinct and introduced mid-entry newlines that broke log-parsing tools.
- Fixed an issue where the `sign in` command didn't work.
- Fixed an issue where `CiScanComplete.dependencies` were populated with unparsed dependencies.
- Fixed an issue where error details weren't printed when an `SemgrepError` exception caused `semgrep` to fail.
- Semgrep now prints an error message and exits instead of silently exiting with code `2` when you run `semgrep scan` in a Docker container without an argument, and there's no target project mounted under `/src`.
- Fixed an issue where a `Unix.Unix_error` would occasionally crash the experimental language server on startup.
- Fixed an issue where scans of large repositories in debug mode resulted in overly large logs.
- Path filters, such as `paths.exclude` and `paths.include` in rules, now apply to normalized file paths relative to the project rule. This makes rule selection independent of the current work folder.
- Patterns with a leading slash, such as `/src`, are now anchored instead
of floating. For example, `exclude: [ "/src" ]` excludes the target
file `src/main.c`, but not `misc/src/main.c`
- **Java**: deprecated the `class $A` partial class pattern in favor of `class $A { ... }`.
- **Python**: Fixed an issue where the Python parser didn't correctly parse and handle valid structural dictionary patterns.

## ⛓️ Semgrep Supply Chain

### Added

- Supply Chain support for PHP is now **generally available (GA)**.
- You can now use the **Upgrade guidance** filter to look for findings based on Assistant's analysis and recommendations of whether upgrading to the dependency that is recommended to remediate the vulnerability.
- Beginning with Semgrep v1.127.0, `uv` is a supported package manager for [Dependency Paths](/semgrep-supply-chain/dependency-search#view-the-dependency-path). This means that `uv` is a supported package manager across all Supply Chain features.

## 🤖 Semgrep Assistant

### Added

- You can now see which memories were used by Assistant when it generated remediation guidance for a specific finding. Semgrep displays this information on the finding details page.

## 🔐 Semgrep Secrets

### Added

- Added the ability to send Slack notifications for Secrets findings.
- Semgrep now makes up to three attempts when validating Amazon Web Services (AWS) credentials that failed due to possibly transient reasons.

## 📝 Documentation and knowledge base

### Added

- Added the following knowledge base articles:
  - [Learn how to search for, filter for, and sort findings in Semgrep AppSec Platform](/docs/kb/semgrep-appsec-platform/search-filter-sort-findings)
  - [Learn how to automate private rules deployment using the Semgrep API](docs/kb/semgrep-appsec-platform/automate-rules-deployment)
  - [Learn why the count of findings differs across various pages in Semgrep AppSec Platform](/kb/semgrep-appsec-platform/findings-count-differ-platform)

### Fixed

- Minor fixes, including fixes to broken link anchors.

## 🔧 OSS Engine

* The following versions of the OSS Engine were released in July 2025:
  * [<i class="fas fa-external-link fa-xs"></i>1.131.0](https://github.com/semgrep/semgrep/releases/tag/v1.131.0)
  * [<i class="fas fa-external-link fa-xs"></i>1.130.0](https://github.com/semgrep/semgrep/releases/tag/v1.130.0)
  * [<i class="fas fa-external-link fa-xs"></i>1.128.0](https://github.com/semgrep/semgrep/releases/tag/v1.128.0)
