---
slug: june-2025
hide_title: true
description: >-
    Release notes include the changes, fixes, and additions in specific versions of Semgrep.
toc_max_heading_level: 3
title: June 2025
tags:
 - Release notes
---

# Semgrep release notes for June 2025

<!-- Remember to add previous month's under-the-cut behavior -->
<!-- Remember to update index page -->

## 🌐 Semgrep AppSec Platform

### Added

- You can now customize PR and MR comments to provide additional context to the comments generated by Semgrep.
- Rules validation is now parallelized to improve performance when Semgrep scans use many rule files.
- Semgrep now respects `ALL_PROXY`, `HTTP_PROXY`, `HTTPS_PROXY`, `NO_PROXY`, `PROXY_USERNAME`, and `PROXY_PASSWORD` for all networking, including networking done through the OCaml components. Additionally, the environment variable
`OCAML_EXTRA_CA_CERTS` now allows additional CA certificates to be used for network operations done by OCaml components.

### Changed

- The **Sign up** and **Log in** page has been redesigned.
- The **Finding details** page has been redesigned and unified across all Semgrep products.
- The **Settings > Deployment** page in Semgrep AppSec Platform has been removed and reorganized into a **General** page that features sub-tabs for individual uses and Semgrep products.
- Search and pagination on the **Settings > Source code managers** page have been improved, resulting in better load times and smoother navigation.
- Restored links to the same finding on other branches on the finding's details pages.
- **Jira**:
  - Semgrep AppSec Platform now displays information about Jira ticket creation in the **Activity** section of the **Finding details** page. You can check if a ticket was successfully created or if an error occurred during ticket creation.
  - Semgrep organization members can now create Jira tickets for findings.

### Fixed

- Fixed an issue where `semgrep ci` logs in GitLab return incorrect URLs with the wrong `&ref=...` argument.
- Fixed an issue where Semgrep Managed Scan was enabled on projects tagged as `local_scan`.
- Fixed an issue where scan logs show that pull request or merge request comments were successfully posted when the comments were not posted.
- Fixed an issue where Semgrep AppSec Platform did not account for community seats when calculating license usage.
- `nosemgrep` ignore comments no longer require exactly one leading space, allowing for more commenting styles.
- The Semgrep findings returned by the Semgrep Language Server (LSP) are now sorted correctly based on their location within files. This benefits the Semgrep IDE extensions, including VSCode and IntelliJ.
- Various UI fixes.

## 💻 Semgrep Code

### Added

- Added type inference for `mod`, floor division, and `pow`.

### Changed

- JSON output now includes basic profiling data.

### Fixed

- Fixed an issue where taint rules that use the experimental feature *labels* and specify sinks with a `requires:` of the form `not A` could produce findings with an empty list of traces, potentially causing Semgrep to crash. 
- Fixed an issue where the empty Python fstring `f""` wasn't matched by the pattern `...`.
- Fixed an issue where a multiplication expression of `int` isn't considered an `int`.
- Fixed an issue where `2 * groups` isn't considered an `int` when `groups` is an `int`.
- **Go**: fixed an issue where `case` statements with ellipses didn't match patterns correctly.
- **JavaScript**: fixed an issue where JavaScript autofix code suggestions break syntax for `if` statements by consuming parentheses.
- **Python**: fixed a regression that could cause naming to take a disproportionate amount of time, significantly slowing down scans.
- **TypeScript**: fixed an issue with stack overflow and out-of-memory issues when parsing TypeScript configurations.

## ⛓️ Semgrep Supply Chain

### Added

- Support for **PHP** reachability is now in **public beta**, which means that Semgrep offers 98% coverage for **Critical** severity issues, plus some coverage for **High** severity issues.
- You can now customize Supply Chain policies using CVEs as a filtering condition.
- Policies now accept custom CVE options to allow the selection of CVEs for which there are no current findings associated.
- Scan logs now report dependency resolution errors that result from local builds by default.
- Added the reporting of subproject dependency resolution to JSON output.
- **C#**:
  - [Dependency Paths](/semgrep-supply-chain/dependency-search#view-the-dependency-path) for C# projects using NuGet are now in **public beta**.
  - Dependency parsing now handles dependencies with `Project` transitivities.
  - Semgrep can scan NuGet codebases without the need for a lockfile. This feature is in **public beta**.

### Changed

- The filters for malicious dependency findings are now included in the existing **Reachability** filter.

### Fixed

- Fixed an issue where missing version constraints in `yarn.lock` descriptors caused parsing errors.
- Fixed an issue where packages were misidentified by adding support for npm aliasing in package-lock.json.
- Fixed an issue where Jira tickets weren't created for some Supply Chain findings.
- Fixed an issue where archived repositories were accidentally scanned by Semgrep Managed Scans for Supply Chain findings.
- Semgrep no longer parses `build.gradle.kts` files as `build.gradle`.

## 🤖 Semgrep Assistant

### Added

- Memories can now be scoped to a rule's vulnerability class, which are the same groupings that exist on the policies page.
- Organization members can suggest memories for approval by admins.
- Semgrep now sends out emails with information about suggested memories, how many findings each memory affects, and the links to review the memories in Semgrep AppSec Platform.

### Changed

- Organization members can now see memories in addition to admins.
- Active memories now display the name of the person who authored the triage note that Assistant used to create the memory.
- Memories created by Semgrep are now labeled as created by Assistant.

### Fixed

- Fixed an issue where changes made to the **Allowed AI providers** dialog weren't saved.

## 🔐 Semgrep Secrets

### Added

- You can now create memories for generic secrets, allowing you to create and apply custom rules for secret detection through Assistant.

### Fixed

- Fixed an issue where files excluded in `.semgrepignore` were also applied to Secrets scans. Semgrep now scans files that have been excluded from Code and Supply Chain scans for leaked secrets.

## 📝 Documentation and knowledge base

### Added

- [Enable source code manager code access](/semgrep-appsec-platform/scm-code-access)
- [Run a successful proof-of-value (POV) trial with Semgrep](/run-a-successful-pov)
- [Knowledge base: Search, filter, and sort findings in Semgrep AppSec Platform](/semgrep-appsec-platform/scm-code-access)

### Fixed

Minor corrections and typo fixes.

## 🔧 OSS Engine

* The following versions of the OSS Engine were released in June 2025:
  * [<i class="fas fa-external-link fa-xs"></i>v1.124.0](https://github.com/semgrep/semgrep/releases/tag/v1.124.0)
  * [<i class="fas fa-external-link fa-xs"></i>v1.125.0](https://github.com/semgrep/semgrep/releases/tag/v1.125.0)
  * [<i class="fas fa-external-link fa-xs"></i>v1.126.0](https://github.com/semgrep/semgrep/releases/tag/v1.126.0)
  * [<i class="fas fa-external-link fa-xs"></i>v1.127.0](https://github.com/semgrep/semgrep/releases/tag/v1.127.0)
