---
slug: may-2025
hide_title: true
title: May 2025
description: >-
  Release notes include the changes, fixes, and additions in specific versions of Semgrep.
toc_max_heading_level: 3
tags:
  - Release notes
date: 2025-05-30T10:00
---

# Semgrep release notes for May 2025

<!-- Remember to add previous month's under-the-cut behavior -->
<!-- Remember to update index page -->


## 🌐 Semgrep AppSec Platform

### Added

- Semgrep AppSec Platform now displays `OWNERS` information in addition to `CODEOWNERS` information on the Finding Details pages. This information is also available through the Semgrep API.
- Added the ability to triage a finding directly from **Open** to **Reviewing** on the Finding Details page.
- **Jira**: added the ability to map to EPSS categories when creating Jira tickets.

### Changed

- Semgrep AppSec Platform now displays distinct login and signup pages.
- SSO email logins are now case insensitive.
- Semgrep in CI output now shows per-product links depending on what Semgrep products are enabled for a scan.

### Fixed

- Fixed an issue where **Analyze**, **Ignore**, and **Fix** options were available when the finding had previously been marked as **Fixed** or **Removed**.
- Fixed an issue where GitHub Enterprise users were incorrectly redirected to GitHub.com repository URLs.
- **Jira**: 
  - Fixed an issue where Semgrep didn't handle default Jira values correctly, leading to tickets not being created.
  - Fixed an issue where Jira tickets weren't being created due to a Semgrep Assistant auto-triage lookup error.
- **CLI**:
  - Fixed a bug where `--disable-nosem` didn't turn off the feature where ignored findings aren't uploaded to Semgrep AppSec Platform.
  - Fixed `--help` documentation to reflect that, for `--metrics="auto"`, pseudoanonymous metrics are sent when the user is logged in.
- Assorted UI fixes, including fixes to incorrect line breaks and typo corrections.

## 💻 Semgrep Code

### Added

- Improved handling of `include`,` exclude and files properties in tsconfig.json. Projects which use more than one tsconfig in a given directory which apply to different sets of files under that directory should see improvements in name/module resolution. tk-update

### Fixed

- Fix a bug introduced in Semgrep 1.120.0 causing cross-file analyses to run out of memory due to too many parallel jobs. The default setting had been accidentally set to the number of available CPUs which is often too much in cross-file mode. It's now back to `-j1`, which you can override. 
- **CLI**: Fixed a bug where `--disable-nosem` was not sending findings from `nosem`-annotated lines of code to Semgrep AppSec Platform. `--disable-nosem` now correctly sends findings, if any, from `nosem`-annotated lines, to the Platform.

## ⛓️ Semgrep Supply Chain

### Added

- Semgrep can now scan `composer.lock` files for the licenses of PHP dependencies. Through this feature, you can configure Semgrep to block or leave a comment on pull requests or merge requests, depending on the license of the dependency that the PR or MR is adding. This feature is enabled by default and runs on full and diff-aware Supply Chain scans.
- Policies: Added **No reachability analysis** as a policy condition.
- Improved handling of `tsconfig.json` in instances where multiple, separately rooted source directories with their own `tsconfig.json` configurations were previously treated as a single project. These directories are now treated as their own TypeScript project, which should result in better name/module resolution.

### Changed

- Various improvements to the Supply Chain UX in various pages.
    - If the finding has a function call that proves the finding is reachable, this function call is highlighted in the code in the finding's **Details** page.
    - Updated how filters are presented in the **Supply Chain > Vulnerabilities** page.
    - Hiding unreachable findings by default from the findings list.
    - Letting developers know why something is reachable in PR comments.
- Improved Supply Chain scan output and logging.

### Fixed

- Semgrep now scans large manifests and lockfiles, which were previously ignored due to Semgrep's default file size filtering. This ensures that your lockfiles can be scanned for dependencies and their relationships. This fixes a regression introduced in 1.117.0. 
- Fixed a bug where Supply Chain reachability rules which match multiple dependencies could produce reachable findings on transitive dependencies even when the actually used direct dependency was not vulnerable.
- Various minor fixes to the Supply Chain UI.

## 🤖 Semgrep Assistant

### Added

- Assistant Memories v2 is now in **public beta**:
  - Managing memories in Semgrep AppSec Platform now occurs under **Rules & Policies**, not **Settings**.
  - Semgrep AppSec Platform displays data on the scope and impact of memories, including the number of findings affected and which findings affected
  - Assistant now provides **suggested memories**, which are those that Assistant has generated based on your past triage actions. You can view these memories at any time in Semgrep AppSec Platform by navigating to **Rules & Policies > Assistant Memories > Suggested**. For each suggestion, you can choose one of the following actions:
    - Activate the suggested memory to inform Assistant's future advice.
    - Edit the memory, then activate it.
    - Delete the memory.
- Users now see error messages providing specific reasons why a finding can't be analyzed. For example, local scans and scans from projects without code access can't be analyzed.

### Fixed

- Fixed an issue where Assistant's suggested fixes weren't displaying in Semgrep AppSec Platform.
- Fixed an issue where findings displayed the **Agree and ignore** option for Assistant auto-triage feedback, even when **Agree and ignore** wasn't a valid option, resulting in errors.

## 🔐 Semgrep Secrets

### Changed

- Improved performance of Semgrep Secret scans due.

## 📝 Documentation and knowledge base

<!-- sara -->

### Added

- Added the following new documents, articles and sections:
  - DOCUMENT_NAME
  - KB_ARTICLE_NAME
- Minor additions

### Changed

- Updated the documentation header and footer sections.

## 🔧 Semgrep Community Edition (CE)

<!-- sara -->

The following versions of Semgrep CE were released in May 2025:

* [<i class="fas fa-external-link fa-xs"></i>1.121.0](https://github.com/semgrep/semgrep/releases/tag/v1.121.0)
* [<i class="fas fa-external-link fa-xs"></i>1.122.0](https://github.com/semgrep/semgrep/releases/tag/v1.122.0)
* [<i class="fas fa-external-link fa-xs"></i>1.123.0](https://github.com/semgrep/semgrep/releases/tag/v1.123.0)
