src/components/reference/_block-findings-errors-configs.mdx, before:

import Tabs from '@theme/Tabs';
import TabItem from '@theme/TabItem';

The following code displays Semgrep in the CI configuration file for GitHub Actions (GHA) with the default setup (`run: semgrep ci`):
 
```yaml
name: Semgrep
on:
  pull_request: {}
  push:
    branches:
      - main
      - master
    paths:
      - .github/workflows/semgrep.yml
  schedule:
    - cron: '0 0 * * 0'
  workflow_dispatch: {}
jobs:
  semgrep:
    name: Scan
    runs-on: ubuntu-20.04
    env:
      SEMGREP_APP_TOKEN: ${{ secrets.SEMGREP_APP_TOKEN }}
    container:
      image: returntocorp/semgrep
    steps:
      - uses: actions/checkout@v3
      - name: Scan and suppress internal errors
        run: semgrep ci
```
 
The default configuration displayed above lets Semgrep in CI **fail** on blocking findings but **pass** on internal errors. If Semgrep encounters an internal error, it sends an anonymous crash report to a crash-reporting server and exits with exit code `0`. Consequently, Semgrep in CI does not report other statuses than `0` or `1` by default (`0` reports success, `1` reports blocking findings). Optional: Define this configuration explicitly using the `--suppress-errors` flag. The resulting code is the following:
 
```yaml
steps:
  - uses: actions/checkout@v3
  - name: Scan and suppress internal errors
    run: semgrep ci --suppress-errors
```
 
To change the configuration of blocking findings and errors in GitLab, insert one of the configuration options after the `script` key. For example, use `script: semgrep ci --suppress-errors` to state the default option. Similarly, use options described above, such as `script: semgrep ci --no-suppress-errors` or `script: semgrep ci || true`.

The following shortened code snippets in multiple tabs display the position of the default flag in configuration files of various CI providers:

<Tabs
    defaultValue="github"
    values={[
    {label: 'GitHub Actions', value: 'github'},
    {label: 'GitLab CI/CD', value: 'gitlab'},
    {label: 'Jenkins', value: 'jenkins'},
    {label: 'BitBucket Pipelines', value: 'bitbucket'},
    {label: 'CircleCI', value: 'circleci'},
    {label: 'Buildkite', value: 'buildkite'},
    ]}>
<TabItem value="github">

```yaml
steps:
- uses: actions/checkout@v3
- name: Scan and suppress internal errors
   run: semgrep ci --suppress-errors
```

</TabItem>
<TabItem value="gitlab">

```yaml
semgrep:
  image: returntocorp/semgrep
  script: semgrep ci --suppress-errors
```

</TabItem>
<TabItem value="jenkins">

```javascript
steps {
    sh 'pip3 install semgrep'
    sh 'semgrep ci --suppress-errors'
}
```

</TabItem>
<TabItem value="bitbucket">

```yaml
script:
  - semgrep ci --suppress-errors
```

</TabItem>
<TabItem value="circleci">

```yaml
steps:
    - checkout
    - run:
        name: "Semgrep scan"
        command: semgrep ci --suppress-errors
```

</TabItem>
<TabItem value="buildkite">

```yaml
commands:
    - semgrep ci --suppress-errors
```

</TabItem>
</Tabs>

<!-- imports: This file is currently imported to: configuration-reference.md -->

Commit message:

add workflow dispatch (#997)
* add workflow dispatch

* added flag for additional configs to be updated

* update gha config to use a single source of truth

* updated configuration files to indicate default behavior

* added workflow dispatch to missed file

* updated name of ci job

* missed one file

src/components/reference/_block-findings-errors-configs.mdx, after:

import Tabs from '@theme/Tabs';
import TabItem from '@theme/TabItem';

import GhaSemgrepAppSast from "/src/components/code_snippets/_gha-semgrep-app-sast.mdx"

The following code displays Semgrep in the CI configuration file for GitHub Actions (GHA) with the default setup (`run: semgrep ci`):


<GhaSemgrepAppSast />


The default configuration displayed above lets Semgrep in CI **fail** on blocking findings but **pass** on internal errors. If Semgrep encounters an internal error, it sends an anonymous crash report to a crash-reporting server and exits with exit code `0`. Consequently, Semgrep in CI does not report other statuses than `0` or `1` by default (`0` reports success, `1` reports blocking findings).

Optional: Define this configuration explicitly using the `--suppress-errors` flag. The resulting code is the following:
 
```yaml
steps:
  - uses: actions/checkout@v3
  - name: Scan and suppress internal errors
    run: semgrep ci --suppress-errors
```
 
To change the configuration of blocking findings and errors in GitLab, insert one of the configuration options after the `script` key. For example, use `script: semgrep ci --suppress-errors` to state the default option. Similarly, use options described above, such as `script: semgrep ci --no-suppress-errors` or `script: semgrep ci || true`.

The following shortened code snippets in multiple tabs display the position of the default flag in configuration files of various CI providers:

<Tabs
    defaultValue="github"
    values={[
    {label: 'GitHub Actions', value: 'github'},
    {label: 'GitLab CI/CD', value: 'gitlab'},
    {label: 'Jenkins', value: 'jenkins'},
    {label: 'BitBucket Pipelines', value: 'bitbucket'},
    {label: 'CircleCI', value: 'circleci'},
    {label: 'Buildkite', value: 'buildkite'},
    ]}>
<TabItem value="github">

```yaml
steps:
- uses: actions/checkout@v3
- name: Scan and suppress internal errors
   run: semgrep ci --suppress-errors
```

</TabItem>
<TabItem value="gitlab">

```yaml
semgrep:
  image: returntocorp/semgrep
  script: semgrep ci --suppress-errors
```

</TabItem>
<TabItem value="jenkins">

```javascript
steps {
    sh 'pip3 install semgrep'
    sh 'semgrep ci --suppress-errors'
}
```

</TabItem>
<TabItem value="bitbucket">

```yaml
script:
  - semgrep ci --suppress-errors
```

</TabItem>
<TabItem value="circleci">

```yaml
steps:
    - checkout
    - run:
        name: "Semgrep scan"
        command: semgrep ci --suppress-errors
```

</TabItem>
<TabItem value="buildkite">

```yaml
commands:
    - semgrep ci --suppress-errors
```

</TabItem>
</Tabs>

<!-- imports: This file is currently imported to: configuration-reference.md -->
