src/components/reference/_export-as.mdx, before:

Navigate to the root of your codebase, and run your first scan. The specific command you use depends on how you want to view the results.

To run a scan using recommended rules for your programming language, and view the results in the CLI:

```console
semgrep scan
```

To export the results to a plain text file:

```console
semgrep scan --text --text-output=semgrep.txt
```

To export the results to a SARIF file:

```console
semgrep scan --sarif --sarif-output=semgrep.sarif
```

To export the results to a JSON file:

```console
semgrep scan --json --json-output=semgrep.json
```

In addition to the `--text`, `--json`, and `--sarif` flags, which set the primary output formats, and the `--output=<value>` flag that saves the results to a file or posts to a URL, you can append `--<format>-output=<file>` to obtain additional output streams:

```console
# prints findings in SARIF format to standard output and writes in JSON format to `findings.json`.
semgrep scan --sarif --json-output=findings.json

# prints findings in text to standard out and writes JSON output to `findings.json`.
semgrep scan --json-output=findings.json

# prints text output to `findings.txt` and writes in SARIF to `findings.sarif`.
semgrep scan --output=findings.txt --sarif-output=findings.sarif

# writes text to `semgrep.txt`, JSON to `semgrep.json`, and SARIF to `semgrep.sarif`.
semgrep scan --text --output=semgrep.txt --json-output=semgrep.json --sarif-output=semgrep.sarif
```

Accepted values for `<format>`: `text`, `json`, `sarif`, `gitlab-sast`, `gitlab-secrets`, `junit-xml`, `emacs`, `vim`

Commit message:

add links to JSON schema for CLI output (#1560)

src/components/reference/_export-as.mdx, after:

Navigate to the root of your codebase, and run your first scan. The specific command you use depends on how you want to view the results.

To run a scan using recommended rules for your programming language, and view the results in the CLI:

```console
semgrep scan
```

To export the results to a plain text file:

```console
semgrep scan --text --text-output=semgrep.txt
```

To export the results to a SARIF file:

```console
semgrep scan --sarif --sarif-output=semgrep.sarif
```

To export the results to a JSON file:

```console
semgrep scan --json --json-output=semgrep.json
```

> The JSON schema for Semgrep's CLI output can be found in [semgrep/semgrep-interfaces](https://github.com/semgrep/semgrep-interfaces/blob/main/semgrep_output_v1.jsonschema).

In addition to the `--text`, `--json`, and `--sarif` flags, which set the primary output formats, and the `--output=<value>` flag that saves the results to a file or posts to a URL, you can append `--<format>-output=<file>` to obtain additional output streams:

```console
# prints findings in SARIF format to standard output and writes in JSON format to `findings.json`.
semgrep scan --sarif --json-output=findings.json

# prints findings in text to standard out and writes JSON output to `findings.json`.
semgrep scan --json-output=findings.json

# prints text output to `findings.txt` and writes in SARIF to `findings.sarif`.
semgrep scan --output=findings.txt --sarif-output=findings.sarif

# writes text to `semgrep.txt`, JSON to `semgrep.json`, and SARIF to `semgrep.sarif`.
semgrep scan --text --output=semgrep.txt --json-output=semgrep.json --sarif-output=semgrep.sarif
```

Accepted values for `<format>`: `text`, `json`, `sarif`, `gitlab-sast`, `gitlab-secrets`, `junit-xml`, `emacs`, `vim`
