src/components/reference/_required-rule-fields.mdx, before:

All required fields must be present at the top-level of a rule, immediately under the `rules` key.

|     Field     |   Type   | Description |
| :------------ | :------- | :---------- |
| `id`          | `string` | Unique, descriptive identifier, for example: `no-unused-variable`        |
| `message`     | `string` | Message that includes why Semgrep matched this pattern and how to remediate it. See also [Rule messages](/contributing/contributing-to-semgrep-rules-repository/#rule-messages). |
| `severity`    | `string` | One of: `INFO`, `WARNING`, or `ERROR` |
| `languages`   | `array`  | See [language extensions and tags](/writing-rules/rule-syntax/#language-extensions-and-tags) |
| [`pattern`](#pattern)_\*_     | `string` | Find code matching this expression |
| [`patterns`](#patterns)_\*_   | `array`  | Logical AND of multiple patterns |
| [`pattern-either`](#pattern-either)_\*_ | `array`  | Logical OR of multiple patterns |
| [`pattern-regex`](#pattern-regex)_\*_   | `string` | Find code matching this [PCRE](https://www.pcre.org/original/doc/html/pcrepattern.html)-compatible pattern in multiline mode |

:::info
Only one of the following is required: `pattern`, `patterns`, `pattern-either`, `pattern-regex`
:::

Commit message:

Add explanation of rule severity key

src/components/reference/_required-rule-fields.mdx, after:

All required fields must be present at the top-level of a rule, immediately under the `rules` key.

|     Field     |   Type   | Description |
| :------------ | :------- | :---------- |
| `id`          | `string` | Unique, descriptive identifier, for example: `no-unused-variable`        |
| `message`     | `string` | Message that includes why Semgrep matched this pattern and how to remediate it. See also [Rule messages](/contributing/contributing-to-semgrep-rules-repository/#rule-messages). |
| `severity`    | `string` | One of the following values: `INFO`, `WARNING`, or `ERROR`. The value of the `severity` key is assigned to a rule by Semgrep, Inc based on the values of a two other keys: `likelihood`  and `impact`. Note: Semgrep Supply Chain differ, as their rules use CVE assignments for severity calculation. |
| `languages`   | `array`  | See [language extensions and tags](/writing-rules/rule-syntax/#language-extensions-and-tags) |
| [`pattern`](#pattern)_\*_     | `string` | Find code matching this expression |
| [`patterns`](#patterns)_\*_   | `array`  | Logical AND of multiple patterns |
| [`pattern-either`](#pattern-either)_\*_ | `array`  | Logical OR of multiple patterns |
| [`pattern-regex`](#pattern-regex)_\*_   | `string` | Find code matching this [PCRE](https://www.pcre.org/original/doc/html/pcrepattern.html)-compatible pattern in multiline mode |

:::info
Only one of the following is required: `pattern`, `patterns`, `pattern-either`, `pattern-regex`
:::
