src/components/reference/_rule-board.md, before:

Semgrep Cloud Platform's Rule Board displays all rules and rulesets that are used to scan repositories. These rules are scanned based on the repository's programming language and framework as well as additional Semgrep parameters, such as ignored files.

For example, given five repositories each with different programming languages, the Rule Board only scans using rules and rulesets for that repository's language that are in the Rule Board.

Semgrep's speed is not affected by having multiple rules for different languages in the Rule Board.

You may select rules and rulesets from your own rules, your organization's rules, or rules from the Registry.

![Screenshot of Rule board](/img/rule-board.png "Screenshot of Rule board")

The Rule Board is composed of three columns:


<dl>
    <dt>Monitor</dt>
    <dd>Rules here show findings only on Semgrep Cloud Platform.</dd>
    <dt>Comment</dt>
    <dd>Rules here show findings to developers through PRs or MRs.</dd>
    <dt>Block</dt>
    <dd>Rules here show block merges and commits, in addition to showing findings in Semgrep Cloud Platform and PRs or MRs.</dd>
</dl>    

To add rules and rulesets to your Rule Board:

1. Click **Rule Board** on the left sidebar.
2. Click Add Rules. A right-side drawer appears.
3. Type in a search term relevant to your codebase's framework or programming language.
4. Drag a card from the search results to the appropriate column.
5. Select **Save changes**.

For more information on operations such as filtering and deleting as well as Rule board management, see [Rule board](/docs/semgrep-code/rule-board).

Commit message:

Remove Rule board from docs (#1130)
* start to update docs to remove all mentions of rule-board

* updated notifications procedure

* removed mentions of rule board from scp getting started

* remove mentions of rule board in ci and semgrep code

* redirects set up

* updated outdated procedures

* updated webhooks

* remove rule board mentions

* updated docs for policy

* style and content update

* remove more rule board, update docs, update slug

* start fixing modules

* update ignoring files folders to new name

* remove rule board in modules - finalized

* remove rule board

* forgot to commit the sidebars

* update ignore docs

* revert from policies endpoint to board endpoint

* show how to remove rules from findings

* fix failing job

src/components/reference/_rule-board.md, after:

Semgrep Cloud Platform's Policies page displays all rules and rulesets that are used to scan repositories. These rules are scanned based on the repository's programming language and framework as well as additional Semgrep parameters, such as ignored files.

For example, given five repositories each with different programming languages, Semgrep only scans using rules and rulesets for that repository's language that are in the Policies page.

Semgrep's speed is not affected by having multiple rules for different languages in the Policies page.

You may select rules and rulesets from your own rules, your organization's rules, or rules from the Registry.

![Policies page default view](/img/policies.png "Policies page default view")

The Policies page uses **rule modes** to determine what actions to undertake when a finding is generated by the rule. Users are able to select the following rule modes:

<dl>
    <dt>Monitor</dt>
    <dd>Rules set to Monitor mode show findings only on Semgrep Cloud Platform, without notifying developers.</dd>
    <dt>Comment</dt>
    <dd>Rules set to Comment mode show findings to developers through PR or MR comments.</dd>
    <dt>Block</dt>
    <dd>Rules set to Block mode prevent merges and commits, in addition to showing findings in Semgrep Cloud Platform and PRs or MRs.</dd>
</dl>    

To add rules and rulesets to your Policies page:

1. Click **Policies** on the left sidebar.
2. Click **Add Rules**. You are taken to Semgrep Registry.
3. Enter a search term in the Registry search bar or browse to find rulesets and rules.
4. When you have found a rule to add, click on the rule's card.
5. Click **Add to Policy**.
6. Select what rule mode to set the rule to.

For more information on operations such as filtering and deleting as well as Policies management, see [Policies](/docs/semgrep-code/policies).
