docs/semgrep-appsec-platform/asana.md, before:

---
slug: asana
append_help_link: true
title: Asana
hide_title: true
description: "Send Semgrep findings to your Asana project."
tags:
    - Semgrep AppSec Platform
    - Team & Enterprise Tier
---





# Create Asana tickets

:::note
This feature is in a **closed beta**. To request access:
1. Fill out the following form: [Request access to the Semgrep Asana integration closed beta](https://get.semgrep.dev/Jira-asana-linear-private-beta.html).
2. Contact your Technical Account Manager or your Account Executive and let them know you'd like to try the Asana integration out.
:::

The Semgrep Asana integration allows you to create Asana tickets based on your Semgrep Code or Supply Chain findings.

## Enable your Asana integration

:::info Prerequisites
* Your Asana user must be able to approve an OAuth integration with admin level privileges.
:::

To integrate Asana, follow these steps:

1. In [Semgrep AppSec Platform](https://semgrep.dev/login), go to **Settings** > **[Integrations](https://semgrep.dev/orgs/-/settings/integrations)**.
2. On the **[Integrations](https://semgrep.dev/orgs/-/settings/integrations)** page, click **Add Integration** (or **Setup First Integration** if this is your first integration), and then select **Ticketing > Asana**.
3. Follow the on-screen instructions to integrate Asana.

## Configure your default project

Use the drop-down list to select the default project. These settings can be changed later from the integrations page.

![Asana configuration modal](/img/asana-configure-defaults.png)

**Figure** A sample Asana integration

## Create tickets

### Code

:::note
Creating tickets for many findings at once may take some time. Tickets that take longer than 10 seconds to create will be shown in the UI once the page is refreshed.
:::

To create tickets for one or more Code findings, use the triage button from the Code findings page or from an individual finding's details page. Findings can be individually selected, or you can create tickets for all findings for a given rule.

Once a ticket has been created, a link will be present on the right side of the findings page and along the top of an individual finding's details page.

![Create Asana ticket - Code](/img/asana-code-findings.png)
**Figure** Code triage flow

![Asana ticket created - Code](/img/asana-code-ticketed.png)
**Figure** Code ticket created

### Supply Chain

:::caution Limitations
Tickets can only be created for Supply Chain findings with reachable usages. They cannot be created for **Always reachable** or **Unreachable** findings.
:::

The Supply Chain triage flow creates tickets for all usages of a given vulnerability. Usages can not be selected individually.

![Create Asana ticket - Supply Chain](/img/asana-ssc-findings.png)
**Figure** Supply Chain triage flow

![Asana ticket created - Supply Chain](/img/asana-ssc-ticketed.png)
**Figure** Supply Chain ticket created

## Remove your Asana integration

On the **[Integrations](https://semgrep.dev/orgs/-/settings/integrations)** page, find Asana, click **Edit Configuration** and the **Delete**

* This **does not** delete any tickets created by Semgrep.
* This **removes** the link between Asana tickets and Semgrep findings, even if the integration is re-added in the future.

Commit message:

deprecate docs for asana & linear for now (#1587)
* deprecate docs for asana linear for now

* reword

docs/semgrep-appsec-platform/asana.md, after:

---
slug: asana
append_help_link: true
title: Asana
hide_title: true
description: "Send Semgrep findings to your Asana project."
tags:
    - Semgrep AppSec Platform
    - Team & Enterprise Tier
---





# Create Asana tickets

:::note
The beta program for this feature has ended. This feature is currently unavailable on Semgrep AppSec Platform. Semgrep, Inc may re-enable a beta program at a later date. To learn more, reach out to your Technical Account Manager (TAM).
:::

The Semgrep Asana integration allows you to create Asana tickets based on your Semgrep Code or Supply Chain findings.

## Enable your Asana integration

:::info Prerequisites
* Your Asana user must be able to approve an OAuth integration with admin level privileges.
:::

To integrate Asana, follow these steps:

1. In [Semgrep AppSec Platform](https://semgrep.dev/login), go to **Settings** > **[Integrations](https://semgrep.dev/orgs/-/settings/integrations)**.
2. On the **[Integrations](https://semgrep.dev/orgs/-/settings/integrations)** page, click **Add Integration** (or **Setup First Integration** if this is your first integration), and then select **Ticketing > Asana**.
3. Follow the on-screen instructions to integrate Asana.

## Configure your default project

Use the drop-down list to select the default project. These settings can be changed later from the integrations page.

![Asana configuration modal](/img/asana-configure-defaults.png)

**Figure** A sample Asana integration

## Create tickets

### Code

:::note
Creating tickets for many findings at once may take some time. Tickets that take longer than 10 seconds to create will be shown in the UI once the page is refreshed.
:::

To create tickets for one or more Code findings, use the triage button from the Code findings page or from an individual finding's details page. Findings can be individually selected, or you can create tickets for all findings for a given rule.

Once a ticket has been created, a link will be present on the right side of the findings page and along the top of an individual finding's details page.

![Create Asana ticket - Code](/img/asana-code-findings.png)
**Figure** Code triage flow

![Asana ticket created - Code](/img/asana-code-ticketed.png)
**Figure** Code ticket created

### Supply Chain

:::caution Limitations
Tickets can only be created for Supply Chain findings with reachable usages. They cannot be created for **Always reachable** or **Unreachable** findings.
:::

The Supply Chain triage flow creates tickets for all usages of a given vulnerability. Usages can not be selected individually.

![Create Asana ticket - Supply Chain](/img/asana-ssc-findings.png)
**Figure** Supply Chain triage flow

![Asana ticket created - Supply Chain](/img/asana-ssc-ticketed.png)
**Figure** Supply Chain ticket created

## Remove your Asana integration

On the **[Integrations](https://semgrep.dev/orgs/-/settings/integrations)** page, find Asana, click **Edit Configuration** and the **Delete**

* This **does not** delete any tickets created by Semgrep.
* This **removes** the link between Asana tickets and Semgrep findings, even if the integration is re-added in the future.
