docs/semgrep-appsec-platform/gitlab-mr-comments.md, before:

---
slug: gitlab-mr-comments
append_help_link: true
title: GitLab MR comments
hide_title: true
toc_max_heading_level: 4
description: "Enable merge request (MR) comments in your GitLab repositories to display Semgrep findings to developers."
tags:
    - Deployment
    - Semgrep AppSec Platform
---

<!-- vale off -->

import EnableAutofix from "/src/components/procedure/_enable-autofix.mdx"
import DisplayTaintedDataIntro from "/src/components/concept/_semgrep-code-display-tainted-data.mdx"
import CommentTriggers from "/src/components/reference/_comment-triggers.mdx"
import TroubleshootingPrLinks from "/src/components/reference/_troubleshooting-pr-links.mdx"
import PrCommentsInSast from "/src/components/procedure/_pr-comments-in-sast.mdx"
import DefineConnectionVariables from "/src/components/reference/_define-connection-variables.mdx"
import DeploymentJourney from "/src/components/concept/_deployment-journey.mdx"
import ReceiveCommentsScm from "/src/components/procedure/_receive-comments-scm.mdx"
import NextAfterComments from "/src/components/procedure/_next-after-comments.mdx"
import DisableComments from "/src/components/procedure/_disable_ssc_pr_mr_comments.mdx"

<!-- vale on -->

# Set up GitLab merge request comments

<DeploymentJourney />

Semgrep can create **merge request (MR) comments** in your GitLab repository. These comments provide a description of the issue detected by Semgrep and may offer possible solutions. These comments are a means for security teams, or any team responsible for creating standards to help their fellow developers write safe and standards-compliant code.

Automated comments on GitLab merge requests are displayed as follows:

![Semgrep GitLab MR comment](/img/gl-mr-comment.png#md-width)
**Figure** An inline GitLab merge request comment.

## Conditions for MR comment creation

MR comments appear for the following types of scans under these conditions:

<CommentTriggers comment_type="MR"/>

## Steps to set up MR comments

### Prerequisites

In addition to finishing the previous steps in your deployment journey, it is recommended to have completed a **full scan** on your **default branch** for the repository in which you want to receive comments.

### Confirm your Semgrep account's connection

MR comments are enabled by default for users who have connected their GitLab organization (org) to Semgrep AppSec Platform. Confirm that you have the correct connection and access:

1. In your Semgrep AppSec Platform account, click **Settings > Source code managers**.
2. Check that an entry for your GitLab org exists and is correct.

### Create a personal access token (PAT)

Creating a PAT grants the API scope to Semgrep, which lets it post comments.

1. In GitLab, go to [<i class="fas fa-external-link fa-xs"></i> Profile > Access Tokens](https://gitlab.com/-/profile/personal_access_tokens), and then add a token with `api` scope.
1. Copy the token created in the previous step.
1. For GitLab CI/CD users:
    1. Navigate to **Your repository** >  **Settings** > **CI/CD**. The URL of the page where you are ends with: `/username/project/-/settings/ci_cd`.
    1. Under **Variables** click **Expand**, and then click **Add variable**.
    1. Enter **PAT** (change this placeholder name as necessary) in the **Key** field and paste the token value copied in step two to the **Value** field.
    1. Select the **Mask variable** checkbox option, and then clear the **Protect variable** checkbox option.
    1. Update your `.gitlab-ci.yml` file with variable `GITLAB_TOKEN` and value `$PAT`. Refer to the following sample, substituting the placeholder <code><span className="placeholder">PAT</span></code> with the name you created for this variable.
    ```yaml
    semgrep:
      # A Docker image with Semgrep installed.
      image: semgrep/semgrep
      # Run the "semgrep ci" command on the command line of the docker image.
      script: semgrep ci

      rules:
      # Scan changed files in MRs, (diff-aware scanning):
      - if: $CI_MERGE_REQUEST_IID

      # Scan mainline (default) branches and report all findings.
      - if: $CI_COMMIT_BRANCH == $CI_DEFAULT_BRANCH

      variables:
        # Connect to Semgrep AppSec Platform through your SEMGREP_APP_TOKEN.
        # Generate a token from Semgrep AppSec Platform > Settings
        # and add it as a variable in your GitLab CI/CD project settings.
        SEMGREP_APP_TOKEN: $SEMGREP_APP_TOKEN
        # Receive inline MR comments (requires Semgrep AppSec Platform account)
        GITLAB_TOKEN: $PAT
    ```
1. For **other CI providers**:
    1. In your CI provider's interface, define the value of the PAT as a secret. Refer to your CI provider's documentation for steps to do this.
    2. Define the environment variable `GITLAB_TOKEN` and assign the PAT to it.

For more configuration options, see [GitLab CI Sample](/semgrep-ci/sample-ci-configs#gitlab-cicd).

### Define environment variables needed for other CI providers

<DefineConnectionVariables name="GitLab CI/CD" comment_type="MR"/>

### Configure comments for Semgrep Code

<PrCommentsInSast name="GitLab" comment_type="MR" />

### Receive comments in your VPN or on-premise SCM

<ReceiveCommentsScm />

You've set up MR comments! Enable optional features provided in the following sections, or see [Next steps](#next-steps).

## Optional features

### Enable autofix in GitLab repositories

[Autofix](/writing-rules/autofix) is a Semgrep feature in which rules contain suggested fixes to resolve findings.

<EnableAutofix />

### Dataflow traces in MR comments

![Screenshot of a GitLab MR comment with dataflow traces](/img/dataflow-traces-mr-comments.png#bordered)
**Figure** An inline GitLab pull request comment with dataflow traces.

<DisplayTaintedDataIntro />

#### View the path of tainted data in MR comments

To enable dataflow traces in your CI pipeline, fulfill the following prerequisites:

:::info Prerequisites
- Set up Semgrep to post GitLab merge request comments, as described on this page.
- To obtain meaningful results of dataflow traces in MR comments, use cross-file analysis while scanning your repositories. To enable cross-file analysis, see [<i class="fa-regular fa-file-lines"></i> Perform cross-file analysis](/semgrep-code/semgrep-pro-engine-intro).
- Not all Semgrep rules or rulesets make use of taint tracking. Ensure that you have a ruleset, such as the **default ruleset** added in your **[Policies](https://semgrep.dev/orgs/-/policies)**. If this ruleset is not added, go to [https://semgrep.dev/p/default](https://semgrep.dev/p/default), and then click **Add to Policy**. You can add rules that use taint tracking from [Semgrep Registry](https://semgrep.dev/explore).
:::

## Disable MR comments for Supply Chain findings

<DisableComments />

## Next steps

<NextAfterComments />

## Additional references

<TroubleshootingPrLinks />

Commit message:

add info re: MR comments with multiple GitLab groups

docs/semgrep-appsec-platform/gitlab-mr-comments.md, after:

---
slug: gitlab-mr-comments
append_help_link: true
title: GitLab MR comments
hide_title: true
toc_max_heading_level: 4
description: "Enable merge request (MR) comments in your GitLab repositories to display Semgrep findings to developers."
tags:
    - Deployment
    - Semgrep AppSec Platform
---

<!-- vale off -->

import EnableAutofix from "/src/components/procedure/_enable-autofix.mdx"
import DisplayTaintedDataIntro from "/src/components/concept/_semgrep-code-display-tainted-data.mdx"
import CommentTriggers from "/src/components/reference/_comment-triggers.mdx"
import TroubleshootingPrLinks from "/src/components/reference/_troubleshooting-pr-links.mdx"
import PrCommentsInSast from "/src/components/procedure/_pr-comments-in-sast.mdx"
import DefineConnectionVariables from "/src/components/reference/_define-connection-variables.mdx"
import DeploymentJourney from "/src/components/concept/_deployment-journey.mdx"
import ReceiveCommentsScm from "/src/components/procedure/_receive-comments-scm.mdx"
import NextAfterComments from "/src/components/procedure/_next-after-comments.mdx"
import DisableComments from "/src/components/procedure/_disable_ssc_pr_mr_comments.mdx"

<!-- vale on -->

# Set up GitLab merge request comments

<DeploymentJourney />

Semgrep can create **merge request (MR) comments** in your GitLab repository. These comments provide a description of the issue detected by Semgrep and may offer possible solutions. These comments are a means for security teams, or any team responsible for creating standards to help their fellow developers write safe and standards-compliant code.

Automated comments on GitLab merge requests are displayed as follows:

![Semgrep GitLab MR comment](/img/gl-mr-comment.png#md-width)
**Figure** An inline GitLab merge request comment.

## Conditions for MR comment creation

MR comments appear for the following types of scans under these conditions:

<CommentTriggers comment_type="MR"/>

## Steps to set up MR comments

### Prerequisites

In addition to finishing the previous steps in your deployment journey, it is recommended to have completed a **full scan** on your **default branch** for the repository in which you want to receive comments.

### Confirm your Semgrep account's connection

MR comments are enabled by default for users who have connected their GitLab organization (org) to Semgrep AppSec Platform. Confirm that you have the correct connection and access:

1. In your Semgrep AppSec Platform account, click **Settings > Source code managers**.
2. Check that an entry for your GitLab org exists and is correct.

### Create a personal access token (PAT)

Creating a PAT grants the API scope to Semgrep, which lets it post comments.

1. In GitLab, go to [<i class="fas fa-external-link fa-xs"></i> Profile > Access Tokens](https://gitlab.com/-/profile/personal_access_tokens), and then add a token with `api` scope.
1. Copy the token created in the previous step.
1. For GitLab CI/CD users:
    1. Navigate to **Your repository** >  **Settings** > **CI/CD**. The URL of the page where you are ends with: `/username/project/-/settings/ci_cd`.
    1. Under **Variables** click **Expand**, and then click **Add variable**.
    1. Enter **PAT** (change this placeholder name as necessary) in the **Key** field and paste the token value copied in step two to the **Value** field.
    1. Select the **Mask variable** checkbox option, and then clear the **Protect variable** checkbox option.
    1. Update your `.gitlab-ci.yml` file with variable `GITLAB_TOKEN` and value `$PAT`. Refer to the following sample, substituting the placeholder <code><span className="placeholder">PAT</span></code> with the name you created for this variable.
    ```yaml
    semgrep:
      # A Docker image with Semgrep installed.
      image: semgrep/semgrep
      # Run the "semgrep ci" command on the command line of the docker image.
      script: semgrep ci

      rules:
      # Scan changed files in MRs, (diff-aware scanning):
      - if: $CI_MERGE_REQUEST_IID

      # Scan mainline (default) branches and report all findings.
      - if: $CI_COMMIT_BRANCH == $CI_DEFAULT_BRANCH

      variables:
        # Connect to Semgrep AppSec Platform through your SEMGREP_APP_TOKEN.
        # Generate a token from Semgrep AppSec Platform > Settings
        # and add it as a variable in your GitLab CI/CD project settings.
        SEMGREP_APP_TOKEN: $SEMGREP_APP_TOKEN
        # Receive inline MR comments (requires Semgrep AppSec Platform account)
        GITLAB_TOKEN: $PAT
    ```
1. For **other CI providers**:
    1. In your CI provider's interface, define the value of the PAT as a secret. Refer to your CI provider's documentation for steps to do this.
    2. Define the environment variable `GITLAB_TOKEN` and assign the PAT to it.

For more configuration options, see [GitLab CI Sample](/semgrep-ci/sample-ci-configs#gitlab-cicd).

:::info MR comments with multiple GitLab groups
If you're using Semgrep with multiple GitLab groups, ensure that you've completed one of the following steps to ensure that you see MR comments for repositories associated with all of your groups:

1. Create a Semgrep account connection with each GitLab group by signing in to your Semgrep account, navigating to **Settings > Source code managers**, and adding an entry for each group.
2. Add the `GITLAB_TOKEN` environment variable to your CI configuration. You can set `GITLAB_TOKEN` to the GitLab PAT that grants access to all of your GitLab groups (recommended), or you can use a different GitLab PAT for each of your GitLab groups.
:::

### Define environment variables needed for other CI providers

<DefineConnectionVariables name="GitLab CI/CD" comment_type="MR"/>

### Configure comments for Semgrep Code

<PrCommentsInSast name="GitLab" comment_type="MR" />

### Receive comments in your VPN or on-premise SCM

<ReceiveCommentsScm />

You've set up MR comments! Enable optional features provided in the following sections, or see [Next steps](#next-steps).

## Optional features

### Enable autofix in GitLab repositories

[Autofix](/writing-rules/autofix) is a Semgrep feature in which rules contain suggested fixes to resolve findings.

<EnableAutofix />

### Dataflow traces in MR comments

![Screenshot of a GitLab MR comment with dataflow traces](/img/dataflow-traces-mr-comments.png#bordered)
**Figure** An inline GitLab pull request comment with dataflow traces.

<DisplayTaintedDataIntro />

#### View the path of tainted data in MR comments

To enable dataflow traces in your CI pipeline, fulfill the following prerequisites:

:::info Prerequisites
- Set up Semgrep to post GitLab merge request comments, as described on this page.
- To obtain meaningful results of dataflow traces in MR comments, use cross-file analysis while scanning your repositories. To enable cross-file analysis, see [<i class="fa-regular fa-file-lines"></i> Perform cross-file analysis](/semgrep-code/semgrep-pro-engine-intro).
- Not all Semgrep rules or rulesets make use of taint tracking. Ensure that you have a ruleset, such as the **default ruleset** added in your **[Policies](https://semgrep.dev/orgs/-/policies)**. If this ruleset is not added, go to [https://semgrep.dev/p/default](https://semgrep.dev/p/default), and then click **Add to Policy**. You can add rules that use taint tracking from [Semgrep Registry](https://semgrep.dev/explore).
:::

## Disable MR comments for Supply Chain findings

<DisableComments />

## Next steps

<NextAfterComments />

## Additional references

<TroubleshootingPrLinks />
