---
description: Change the default mode for a ruleset.
tags:
  - Rules
  - Semgrep Registry
  - Semgrep Code
append_help_link: true
---

# Why do new rules keep appearing in Comment or Block mode?

Semgrep AppSec Platform [Policies](/docs/semgrep-code/policies) can contain both individual rules and **rulesets**, which are curated groups of rules recommended for particular purposes. All organizations start with two rulesets: the `default` ruleset, which is a good starter pack for security teams, and the `comment` ruleset, which is a good starter pack for developers.

As Semgrep adds new rules to improve coverage, some of these rules are also added to rulesets. If you add a ruleset to your organization's policies, any new rules added to the ruleset automatically become a part of your policies as well.

The `default` and `comment` rulesets are initially added in **Monitor** mode, where the findings generated by the rules are primarily intended for security teams to review. You can also [add new rulesets to your policies](/docs/semgrep-code/policies#add-rulesets-to-your-policies-from-the-registry) from the Semgrep Registry.

When you add a ruleset through the registry, you can add it in any policy mode: **Monitor**, **Comment**, or **Block**. The mode you choose will determine the mode for future rules that are added to that ruleset.

Even if you later change some or all rules from a ruleset to a different mode, the default mode for the ruleset does not change. Therefore, when you add new rules to the ruleset, they are added in the original mode.

## Change the default mode for a ruleset

To change the default mode for a ruleset, follow the same process as for [adding a new ruleset to your policies](/docs/semgrep-code/policies#add-rulesets-to-your-policies-from-the-registry) and select the desired default mode.

After adding the ruleset in the default mode, you can then [change any individual rule modes](/docs/semgrep-code/policies#block-a-pr-or-mr-through-rule-modes) for rules that you prefer to keep in a different mode.
